---
layout: post
title: December 06, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My darling--  

x          x          x          x          x          x          x          x           x          x        x        x        x        x
Do you know what these stars stand for?  I’ll tell you.  They indicate my blank thoughts, my blue feelings I get not receiving a letter from you this morning.  It is now past due and my impatience cannot be described in words.  Tonight I shall personally go to the Post office, and if there is no letter       x       x     x     x,    if there is no letter this will be filled with stars.  I thought, at first, I would begin somehow this way:  “Dear Miss Lofland, I suppose I must now unsay all I have said, because from the failure to receive an answer—overdue—to my letters and by not hearing from Mrs. Lofland as promised, I conclude my letters have not been received with pleasure, and a correspondence with me is not desirable”, etc. etc. etc.   I won’t do it, darling little woman, for you’ll tell me, won’t you, when you want me to stop writing.  In your first letter you wanted me to tell how much I loved you.  That’s about all I can say, dear Emily, and when you don’t want to hear, I must be banished entirely.  I do love you, darling, and all I can say is x      x      x       x  


Friday, Dec. 7, 1877   x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x

x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x      x        x        x       x

x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x         x       x       x

I have no heart to write this morning.

x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x

x       x       x       x        x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x

x       x        x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x       x  

I love you, tho, as much or more than ever.  


Later—Friday afternoon.  This letter will give you a knowledge of another trait in my character—impatience.  I am probably unreasonable, but methodical, and a stickler for some things.  I am inclined to believe I am too fond of writing letters, and possibly expect more than is my due.  I thought—I hoped—I expected a letter from you night before last.  It did not come.  I am lonesome, I am blue.  Reason says I have no right to expect, but love is unreasonable.  Hope says be patient, but patience is not a compound of love.  I want to hear from you, to see the counterfeit of your face.  Am I unreasonable?  

                            Love adds a precious seeing to the eye;
                            A lover’s eyes will gaze an eagle blind;
                            A lover’s ear will hear the lowest sound;
                            And when love speaks, the voice of all the gods
                            Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony.  

My friend Shakespeare wrote those lines.  I’m in love, and want to put heaven to sleep, therefore speak, darling Emily.  Let me hear from you, please, and often.  Are you vexed that I show impatience?  Remember we are not perfect.  I am the most unperfect of all creations, just now, but I love you Emily.  


Saturday, Dec. 8th.    No letter yet.  I am disappointed.  Today I am going across the bay on Prince to meet Mr. Valentine at Hayward.  I will stay there until tomorrow and then ride back.  Hayward is 14 miles from Oakland, and Mr. Valentine lives there with his family, coming and going daily to San Francisco.  If it doesn’t rain I will have a charming ride for all the country is now green and wild flowers are everywhere.  The only reason I do not wish to go is that maybe my letter will come tonight and I won’t see it until tomorrow afternoon.  

I am more than ever fearful that something has occurred to stop our correspondence.   I know I ought not to anticipate trouble (to lose you would be the greatest trial I shall ever bear), but it is my nature, I reckon, to look on the dark side, but really there seems good cause for believing that you do not care for me.  Please tell me if my letters are objectionable or not welcome.  Whenever you tell me so, I will annoy you no longer.  I will be most blue, but I do love you, darling Emily.  Your Jos Roberson  


Sunday—4:15 p.m.    I am disappointed.  No letter yet.  And it is nearly a week past due.  My hope is nearly gone.  I have no heart to write.  I thought you’d write promptly on receipt of mine.  I cannot write.  I have nothing to say.  I’ve been in the saddle all day and am tired but if my letter had come I’d not been so tired but what I could have filled several pages this afternoon.  

Will I ever get another letter?  I’m afraid not.  But why so sudden a change I cannot, for my life, understand.  Has anybody poisoned your mind?  Have I written unbecoming letters?  Have I been too profuse in my declarations?  I cannot help, I do not wish to conceal telling my love.  I do love you, my darling Emily, but if I hear from you no more will tell you so no more.  
I cannot bear the thought of being a bore to the only person on earth I really truly love.  Though bluer than indigo I love you, Emily, and wait to hear.  

Jos Roberson
