---
layout: post
title: November 22, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My darling Emily:  

Now I change the person and instead of writing my thoughts I write directly to my darling.  I could not wait till this morning, but at 10 oclock last night went personally to the post office, and after groping around amongst the boxes, for the first time found W. F. Fox, and there was the dearest letter from the dearest girl on earth, my Emily.  I could not wait till I got home but by the first lamp light read it.  Up to this timenoonIve only read it six times, and Im sure youll say that is moderate.  You dont know how pleased I was, my little girl, to hear from you, and of all the charming letters ever brought to this coast yours was the most charming.  You said exactly what I wanted you to say and now I am sure you like me---"better than anybody else".  I hope soon to hear you say "I love you".  I was a little afraid from the delay that your mother would not allow me to correspond.  I shall look, impatiently, for her letter, and if she gives an unqualified assent then Ill be more happy.  Today I shall not write you very much, but Sunday I will write again, and shall make it a religious duty to do so every Sunday hereafter.  Emily shall be my religion always, now, for I love her I love you, Emily.  

Emily, let me tell you something.  What makes you begin "Dear Mr. Roberson?"   Do I appear so old that I have to be "Mr." to you?  Dont believe it.  Im a young fellow.  Everybody calls me Jo.  When a boy is named Jo hes first Jo, then Jo right along till he gets old, then hes "uncle Jo", then at last "old uncle Jo".  I like to be called Jo by those I like.  By those who respect me, only, Id rather be Mr., but as soon as they like me pretty well I want them to call me as the others do to me alone, you know.  Now honestly, what do you call one, to yourself in thinking?  You certainly dont think of me as "Mr?"  When you are alone, sometimes, do you ever think this way:  "I wonder what my Jo is doing?"  Please hear me.  Whichever way you think of me all by yourself, thats what Id like to have you call me and begin your letters with.  Please learn to believe that what you write to me is just the same as your thinking it.  Between you and me I want a kind of masonry to exist, a perfect trust, a confidence that can not be shaken.  What you say to me shall be as sacred as your thoughts.  I love you, my darling, and my love is pure and not for others ears or eyes.  Believe in me, --believe that whatever front I may show to the world the inner, the best part of me, my heart, is all yours, and you may trust me.  Say what you like, call me what you like, only, Emily darling, lets not stand on "conventionalities" when we write.  You will never show my letters, I will never show yours.  In time I will tell you everything.  Isnt it best for us both to be our natural selves?  You are my idol, my ideal, but I want you to think of me as real, think of me as a sinful man, full of failings, but I want you to know that all the good in me is yours.  My love for you is no idle fancy; it is a deep conviction, lasting as my life, neither ending with this earth, but hoping with the beautiful religion I believe in that in the hereafter it may continue and grow brighter and never die.  

I'm going to write to you Sunday, when Im alone, and every Sunday.  I may write you a line between Sundays, if it wont bore you, and hereafter shall not wait for answers.  You'll do the same?  When you are lonely, or alone, and think of me why not write it down?  Do not be afraid to do it.  They may tease you about it, but let me know.  Confide your annoyances to me.  Let me be your sympathizing friend.  I have not answered your letter.  That shall be done Sunday.  This is a pretty long one, tho.  Just count the lines on these sheets and look how closely it is all filled. These two pages could not be copied on twelve ordinary note pages.  If I write too often and too long, tell me.  Dont tax yourself in your letters to me.  If it is tiresome to write dont do it from a sense of duty.  Always act your inclination.  Im used to writing.  Its my business.  From morning till night I have a pen in my hand, and it is no more of a task for me than it must be for you to play a piece on the piano.  But if it is easy for you to write and you want to do it often, please do my darling, for your letters are the spur of my life---you are the incentive to live.  

You will answer this soon as you get it, wont you?  You will write one often now, wont you, please?  If you know how cheerful and sunny my heart is when I hear from you, you would do it, I know.  

I want you to constantly believe and to know that I love you, Emily.  

Faithfully Your  
Jo
