---
layout: post
title: November ?, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---

This only for the eye of one I would like to have the right to call  

My darling Emily; --  

To begin I have to make a confession.  I propose always to be honest with you and must tell this; otherwise I'll not be honest.  I told you I liked you well, very well.  Now I must say I love you better every day - more than I can tell.  

I have so many things to say I can say nothing.  I doubt as to whether I will receive any reply, or if at all maybe only that we must not correspond, what shall I say?  I want to talk to you, to say how blue I felt the night I left, how it was not improved by failing to see either little trifle on your finger, and the impossibility of saying one word at parting, not even a God-bless-you, Emily, I love you.  

By this time I trust you have had a photograph taken, and I shall eagerly look for it very soon.  You wanted me to have the locket made, with the cross on one side, and put you inside.  I submit a better plan. The locket shall be made and—you willing—it shall contain my picture and be worn by you.  I have a locket already, more suitable for my chain, and when I receive the counterfeit of your face it shall be copied and placed within.  Is this not a better scheme?  

I have written to you a number of times since I left St. Louis.  You will think strange, on first thought, that you have not received my letters, but your woman’s wit will soon come to the rescue,h and you will know that the frequent letters to Dr. Fox were intended to advise you of my whereabouts; the press copy to Mrs. L. was a useless thing and only such that you might hear a word, and the great haste to post Charley on California’s affairs was more to Emily than to Charley.  I have not written you direct till now, but it wasn’t because I didn’t want to.  If I had brought with me the right—you should have heard from me much oftener and the others not at all.  Can I not have the right?  Have you met him whom you like better?  I hope not—I hope you may never see him for my own selfish sake.  And yet my love for you is so great that should you meet him I would say “My darling is happy, why should I complain?”  But if you do not meet him and the “I like you better than I ever liked anybody before” should grow, and you should say to me, as in the song you laid out, I would be the happiest fellow on earth, and my life should be devoted to one purpose—that of trying to make my Emily contented and happy.  

You will write to me, won’t you?  You will tell me your closest thoughts and keep nothing back?  I believe in your truth, your constancy, and the best evidence given me was when you said your love was not yet firmly fixed, but you thought you liked me very well.  You won’t write me any of those cold formal letters, like the only one I ever received from you?  I have that little note, tho, and all the little flowers you placed in my button holes.  I would not part from them.  I remember every word you ever said, and will you forgive me     x     x     x     x     x     x     x     x     x     x     x     x  but I won’t finish that sentence nor write any more until I know whether or not we are to correspond.  

Perhaps my writing in this way may not be agreeable.  If so tell me.  But when I love, I love to tell it.  I want you to constantly believe and to know that I love you, Emily.  

Faithfully,  
J.S.R.
