---
layout: post
title: November 17, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
Mr. A.E. Head  
Nevada Block  

Dear Sir,  
At the time we made our horse tradenearly two years agoI had a little money and property and was receiving a fair salary.  Since then, whether through bad management or bad luck, my money has dwindled away.  My salary has been reduced and now I am so poor that even my watch has been disposed of to pay debts.  It seems to me that sufficient time has elapsed to settle up our affairs some way.  At least to have some kind of an understanding.  The agreement was, as you remember, that when you made me $1000 the horse was yours.  The fact of your selling him is evidence that you consider yourself the owner, and yet I have received not one dollar in value for the horse, saddle and bridle.  The stock transactions were manipulated by you, or by your direction without any knowledge or suggestion of mine, and all the satisfaction I have even been given was "wait until the time comes."  There have been several sharp rises in stocks, but so far I have had no encouraging report.  I wish you would tell me what I may expect, and when.  It certainly has been running long enough to have a definite understanding.  What do you propose?  You surely do not intend that I shall never receive anything.  Everybody says you will "make it all right," but two years is a long time to allow a trade of this kind to remain unsettled.  

I have tried repeatedly to see you, but cannot - I have been to your office often but do not find you.  Hence I write.  Think it over and see if we cannot make a settlement of some kind, and soon.  I am actually in need or would not bother you.  

Yours Truly  
Jos. S. Roberson
