---
layout: post
title: December 30, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My dear Emily,  

This morning I took Prince out for exercise.  The day opened clear and chilly, with quite a strong north wind, but now it is perfectly lovely,--still, sunny and warm.  The country looks beautiful everywhere.  The little home I expect to get across the bay will be charming in about a month.  I like to ride out these delightful days—on my return from putting Prince in the stable I met Harry Norton, and he apologized for negligence and insisted upon my calling at 4 o’clock this afternoon, which I shall do.  He said Mrs. Norton was quite well now, and would sing for me.  I will report the visit in my next.  

For four nights I have been a visitor to the post office, looking for that “other letter this week”, promised in your last.  Each time I came back sad, lonely and disappointed.  Tonight it must come, for this is the last mail of the week.  Tonight’s mail should bring me a letter written on last Sunday, and Tuesday night I should receive acknowledgements of mine of 16th, and my Merry Christmas telegram.  The next three days will be restless days, for now-a-days I am only happy when reading your letters.  Please write to me oftener, dear Emily.  You don’t know what a comfort it is to get a letter from a dear one far away.  Wait till you like somebody well, three thousand miles off, and see if you can imagine a more lonely feeling than to hope for letters and not get them.  Probably it is best (for you) not to love anybody, far away, but I can’t help it.  I don’t want to help it.  

I heard from Dr. Fox last night.  He tells me he will be home about the 8th of January—two or three days after you receive this.  He has the blues, but from a different cause.  He has all the love any man wants.  I am deficient in just that.  We are never content, I reckon, but I believe if I had someone to love me, always, and look and wait my coming—ah! me—I’m free!  

We are very busy now.  To convince you I enclose a proof of an awful job that I’ve been at.  The statistics contained in these two printed pages were compiled from a pile of documents from 700 offices.  To get this all together in good shape was no easy task.  More of the same kind have to be made up tomorrow and next day.  But for all that if a real long, good, kind letter comes from one I like “purty well” see if I don’t find time to write a long reply.  

I went to the theater once during the holidays.  To be a faithful chronicler I send you the bill, which I saved for you.  And now I’m going to stop after telling you I like you better than I did last week, which is so much that I can’t describe it in words.  I like you, Emily Lofland, better than anybody.  

Faithfully, J.S.R  


Sunday night - 10 o'clock - Dec. 30, 77  

My dear Emily,  

I have a double excuse for writing you this, the second letter today.  I have seen Mrs. Norton, and must report.  I got your promised letter tonight, and honestly, have read it only twice, and it’s been in my hands ten minutes!  

By some mistake—calculating distance, difference in time or something, I got to Mr. Norton’s door ten minutes late.  My ring was answered by their Chinese servant, but in a moment a lady appeared in the hall, with outstretched hand, saying,”Mr. Roberson?”  To which
I replied “Yes; Mrs. Norton?”—That was our introduction.  I learned soon afterwards that Harry, knowing my usual promptness, had gone to meet me, but I had gone another way and missed him.  There was a gentleman there and his children, just going,--and after his departure Mrs. Norton began the conversation somehow this way:  “Mr. Roberson, Harry says you know some dear friends of mine, and I want you to tell me all about them.  You met Mrs. Lofland and Emily?”—Then I went on and told her, and if you think I said anything to the discredit of any of you, then, Miss Emily, you are mistaken, that’s all.  I told her how handsome-------but I won’t tell you—you’ll get vain.  Harry came in pretty soon, and Mrs. Norton said, “Harry, Mr. Roberson has been telling me about my old friends, and I do wish they’d come to California; you’d fall in love with Emily.”  Harry answered this: “My dear, I’m afraid Jo has done that already; this visit is a purely selfish one; he doesn’t want to see us but to tell about his sweetheart.”  This was a little pleasantry that had a good effect, and now we were on the best kind of terms, all of us.  So we went along talking, every now and then speaking of you and Mrs. Lofland.  Mrs. Norton sang two pieces.  One was something about the Lark leaving his – something or other.  The other piece was the Three Fishers.  She asked me if I hadn’t heard you sing that.  I said yes…Emily, you sing better than Mrs. Norton.  That’s what I say, and I mean it.    You sing better than Mrs. Norton—to me, in my notion.  You sing better than anybody.  I’d rather this minute hear you sing than hear everybody else in the world.  Today is Sunday and I’m bound to tell the truth.  If I could only see you right now, hear you sing, I’d be the happiest fellow on earth….But that has nothing to do with Mrs. Norton.  She asked me if you were all settled in St. Louis.  Of course I didn’t know.  She wanted to know if there was a probability of you all coming to San Francisco.  Of course I didn’t know.  I said that Mr. Lofland, Dr. Fox and myself had been talking of some business matters which might bring Mr. Lofland to California, but that I didn’t know—even if he should come—whether his family would come.  She hoped you would all come.  I hoped so, too.  She said, in that charming womanly way all women have, “Now, Mr. Roberson, can’t you offer Miss Emily some inducement?”   To this I had to shake my head and say, “No, I’m afraid not, Mrs. Norton.”  She then turned to Harry and told him how much she loved Mrs. Lofland and Emily, and how she wished they were here; how, if they were, they would be her dearest friends; how pleasant she’d try and make everything for them; how—again---Harry would love them.  (But this time she put it in the plural, for she knew I wouldn’t submit a second time.)  She made me give her the address and said she would write—maybe tonight—to either you or Mrs. Lofland.  I haven’t told you the half of it, but you may be sure—all of you—that Mrs. Norton is a firm friend.  They have a charming little home and just as neat as a pin.  The fixtures they have are just as pretty, and every little ornament was pretty and in exactly the right place.  The piano was as handsome as could be, and I’m going to get one just like it for my house across the bay.  But that has nothing to do with the Norton’s.  They wanted to show me their baby, but it was sick.  Altogether I spent the most delightful two hours I ever spent in California, talking about people I love.  

       I can’t tell you how happy I was when I got your letter.  It seemed like a continuance of a happy subject.  Talking about you all afternoon, thinking about you—all the time, and then getting a dear letter.  You never will know how much I think of you, dear Emily, for I can’t begin to tell it—I don’t know words enough, and if I knew every one in the language—put them all together and they would only begin to give you an idea.  I love you.  Those three words express it.  Cut off all adjectives and take the three words in their fullest meaning, in their purest sense and it tells the story.  I shall always love you whether you wish it or not.  

Tomorrow night, or Tuesday night at the outside, I hope to get a letter from you in answer to the long one you received Christmas day.  Will you bid me hope?  I am all impatience until I get the next.  But in the meantime be satisfied of all my love—you have it all.  God bless my darling.  

Faithfully, J.S.R.
