---
layout: post
title: December 23, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My dear Emily,  

Christmas is nearly here.  Before I write you again the “Merry Christmas” will have been said by forty millions of American people.  I shall say it to you tomorrow night.  I shall say it over the wires. Late tomorrow night I shall deposit in the office a telegram to be sent you so that you should receive it on rising Christmas morning, saying “My compliments and a Merry Christmas to you all.”  If the telegraph makes no blunder I shall fix it so you will be obliged to think of me on that day.  

There were no letters for me from anybody this morning.  There was none from Emily.  I thought maybe I might get one this Sunday morning.  I have written you nine long ones since I got back and have received three short ones.  I have been promising you not to write such long letters, but “break over” all the time, forget myself, and annoy you too much.  Now I’m going to begin the short system.  This is the first.  You’re glad, aren’t you?  

All day tomorrow I shall be thinking of St. Louis and people there—one people. Tomorrow—if I have made my calculations right—you should receive my letter of last Sunday, and the parcel sent by Express.  The letters I write you on Sundays get to St. Louis on Saturday nights, and of course are not delivered until Monday.  The parcel didn’t go until Tuesday morning and will, in all probability, be delivered on same day the Sunday letter is.  At the very outside you should receive all on Tuesday morning.  And then—a Merry Christmas, to you all.  

 Dr. Fox is lost, I reckon.  I don’t hear from him any more.  I don’t hear from anybody, tho—and so it’s a stand-off.  I wonder if he has got back home.  I suppose, of course, he’ll spend the holidays with Mrs. F.  All men ought to eat their Christmas dinners with their wives.  That’s what I’d do if I had a wife.  But having none I shall dine with some other fellow’s wife.  Mrs. Rowell has asked me to take dinner at her house, and as her invitation came some ten weeks ago, before some others who have asked me since, I go there.  I rather like the way they get things up.  Old man Rowell is a good liver and the madam has a good table all the time.  

This is a stupid day.  Last night it rained hard, very hard, and this morning it is a little cold.  That is, cold for San Francisco.  It is just about the temperature of the morning you wouldn’t call (****?****).  

<p align="center">A Merry Christmas, a Happy New Year and God bless you, Emily.</p>  
<p align = "center">Faithfully, Jos. R.</p>
