---
layout: post
title: December 15, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My d---ear Emily,  

I came near using the adjective which I believe is objectionable to you.  It is an effort not to use it, and I shall try not to, but am fearful I shall not succeed.  I am now all at sea, don’t know where I stand nor what I think, even, of myself.  That I have not changed in feeling and sentiment towards you, except to think more and more of you, is about the only thing I am certain, positive, about.  Last night was the tenth consecutive night that I visited the post office.  Nine times I was disappointed.  The tenth time I found your letter—an answer (short one) to three of mine.  I read it (only once) in the post office, and went straight home, to my room at the Palace, read it again (twice only) and went to bed.   There is a gas jet right at the head of my bed, and by its bright light, propped on pillows, I read it again, then I got up, took pencil and slips of paper and scribbled for an hour, but this morning I decided not to send the scribbling.  I was disappointed—no, that is not the word I wish to use, but for the life of me I can’t think of the right one.  What I want to say is, I hoped your letter would bring me some encouragement, but it brings me these very words: “Now, Mr. Roberson, I fear I don’t love you enough for that”—alluding to my request that we call ourselves engaged.  Well, to be honest, I never expected you would.  Indeed, knowing myself so well, knowing the poor ability I have to make a woman love me, knowing how non attractive I am in person, in manner, in power to entertain, in sentiment , in everything wanting,  I scarcely believed—I did not believe you would, but I hoped you would encourage me to think that maybe you might some day.  Life (mine) is a dream, an empty boast at best; there is no compensation in it!  You’ve heard me say that before, however.  I can find no fault with you for not loving me; rather, I believe I think more of you for not loving me.  There is one favor, tho, that I want you to grant me, namely: let me like you as long as possible, that is to say, let me like you until you have found another whom you can and do love; let me like you straight along until that time, but when it comes, the very minute you feel the power of that other presence, please tell me to quit writing, please banish me entirely.  Do not banish me by indifference, but outright; say it strongly; say it so I cannot possibly misunderstand.—But, dear Emily, notwithstanding what you wrote, notwithstanding what I have just written, can you not bid me hope?  Just a little?  Say as the widow of the murdered king said to that fearful monster, Richard III, “all men may hope.”  Can’t you give me some encouragement?  I wish I could write as I wish, as I did for two weeks, for two weeks I was so happy; the two hopeful weeks.  I wish you would believe me, I wish you would believe me so much that you would not feel obliged to write—(I quote from your letter lying before me)—“Mr. Roberson, if you loved me as you say you do,”   Don’t you believe it yet?  Then I have not sufficient knowledge of the language I speak to make myself believed.  What can I do, what can I say to convince you?  Every word that I have written you is true, and but an index to my feelings.  If I did not think it most objectionable I would tell it all to you again.  I think my manner of writing  disagreeable for the reasons—first—that you allowed my letters to remain unanswered for a whole week, and more, and then write “x  x  x”, but won’t truthfully say “I love you”.  How much more pleasant it would have been if you could truthfully have said, “I will try to love you.”  

So you think I am an “inconsistent somebody”, do you?  Banish that idea.  I pride myself on my consistency—it’s my only jewel.  For the argument in the case cited, I said I didn’t want to bind you by any promises, and the next asked you to become engaged.  In the next day letter, didn’t I say “Let’s be engaged, and I’ll give you the liberty to withdraw your assent when you like?”  Look at the letter.  I meant by it that if you gave out (when at home only) that we were engaged, it would prevent them from teasing you about getting so many letters, and would give me the right to send you the little trifles I so much wished to send you, and that the engagement would be entirely binding on me, but not on you.  Dear Emily, I wish I could use the words I want to use—I like you better than I ever shall like anybody else, with my whole soul.  I am yours forever, but you are not mine.  If you should ever like me well enough to be my wife, I’d be so good to you that you’d believe that such a rough fellow could be so kind.  But every day I doubt more and more, my ability to make you happy, in some respects—even if you could like me well enough to be my wife. For instance, I could never give you society—not that I could not go into “society”, if I wished; I could; my standing is as good as anybody’s, but as I wrote you, it is my bête-noir, the black heart that I hear, that I abhor; it is the rock upon which many happy lives are made.  I have no patience with it, myself, but would it be right, to ask you,--a handsome, bright, sunny young woman—to give up the pleasure you derive from Society to be a companion for a man whose only promise would be that he would be loyal to you, his heart’s idol?  Peoples ideas differ.  Some like society—some do not.  I belong to the latter class.  While I am on this subject, I will answer something else in your letter.  When you are going to a reception, and wish I could see you in full dress that I might change my opinion, that I had said that style of dress wouldn’t become you.  Dear Emily—you misunderstood me, or I didn’t make my meaning clear.  The idea I wished to convey was that to my eye you looked better when I daily saw you, than you possibly could, decked out in one of those dresses we saw at the Fair.  You would look charming in one of those, though, but to me dear Emily Lofland, as I saw her, as I know her, so she now fills my eye, my heart, my soul,---she whom I like better than all the world beside, she of whom I can truthfully say (changing Shakespeare a little) “If she were mine, and heaven would make me such another  world of one and entire and perfect chrysolite, I would not sell her for it.”  I believe you look better, dear Emily, as you appear all the time, every day I saw you.  The charm of a woman’s looks, to me, consists in looking how she looks all the time.  You are that person.  I watched you critically, saw you in your wrapper, in black, in colors; you always looked well to me.  You are the neatest person I ever saw.  The reasons principally, that I was attracted (?) to you, I knew then that I liked you, that unless you prohibited in some way, I intended to make serious proposals to you, and I must find out your ideas on dress as well as on every subject.  I will go no further into the details of my ideas upon this subject.  My answer comes when you can and will say to me “I will try to like you.”  I will answer what I think on every conceivable thing that might appeal to the happiness of two people.  I told you what I thought of the stages; and now I think I shouldn’t have done so.  

I began this by saying I was all at sea, and I find I am drifting further from shore, so will stop and finish –even though there are two or three lines left I will fill them.  Emily, won’t you answer any time you get a letter from me?  Or do I write less if that is your pleasure?  I will not write so often nor so long.  If when I write shouldn’t I get letters?  I am saving all sorts of things when I do hear from you.  

9:45 p.m. same day~  
I didn’t intend to inflict any more upon you tonight, but I couldn’t think of any place to go, anything to do.  Let me bore you this time.  Hereafter I will be more conservative. – At dinner I got to thinking, and after having read your letter for about the 47th time I am forced to the conclusion that it was a forced effort; that is to say, I believe you felt that you ought to write, but took no great heart in the task.  I may be wrong in my surmises, but in only my heart, I am.  If I am not wrong it is to me “confirmation strong as proof of Holy Writ”  that you meant even more than your words implied when you wrote: “I’m afraid I do not love you.”—This expression also strengthens that conviction: “No matter what may occur hereafter I have never deceived you.”  I am also persuaded to this belief by the positive manner in which you declare that you do not wish to become engaged.  There are, however, some things in your letter, dear Emily, which make my heart swell with happiness and almost force me to break the resolution formed at the onset of this, and use a string of endearing adjectives a page long.  One is:  “But maybe I won’t do so anymore, if you still object.”  This is the second thing in the letter and reminds me of an occurrence one night forever to be remembered, wherein you exhibited a consideration for my feelings of note and expressed wish, in such a marked manner that I so liked you so well that I could scarcely restrain myself from telling it before others.---The other salient points in your letter leave a doubtful impression upon my mind.  The first is: ---in telling of Charlie’s sweetheart in which you say “she fully reciprocates, however.”  This occurring very soon after what you said about engagements, etc., does it convey a double meaning?  Does it mean that maybe my sweetheart does not reciprocate?  Another double thing is where you tell me I must return to St. Louis “if only to say good-bye.”  That would tax me too severely.  If it comes to “good-bye” I’d rather be 3000 miles away.  If the “farewell and if forever, still forever,”  must essay………..dear Emily, let’s not discuss that.  I don’t want to lose you, indeed I don’t; I can’t bear the thought.  If it must come, I’ll remember you as I knew you, a kind and considerate girl, and I remember you as saying “I like you better than anybody else”; let not my recollection of you be a frozen “good-bye”.  Let’s not talk about it.  If it must come let it be by mail, not from your lips to me personally.  To one part of your letter I have not alluded,--your ailment, and it was the first to cause me pain, the first to see, the one thing I expected.  I suspected several days ago that sickness prohibited you from answering my letters, and in my impatience I telegraphed  Dr. Fox three days ago, (enclosed I hand you a press copy of the telegraph and the letter received only today.)  Wasn’t it a roundabout way to find out, about a strong proof of the truth of what I’ve been writing you?  

(O, dear, there’s not another sheet of ruled paper.)  But to continue.  I can never tell you how wretched I’d been if I had known positively that you were sick.  The letter that brings me notice of your sickness, however, informs me of your restoration to health.  Take good care of yourself, dear Emily, and don’t get sick any more, please.  Wrap up when you go out these cold days.  

Your letter, I’ll venture to say, could be copied on half of one of these pages, and see I have already taken three whole pages of short narrow ruled lines to answer it, and there are some things not touched upon.  I’ve got lots of things to say.  I haven’t told you of what I’ve been doing since last Sunday, of the utterly miserable feelings I have indulged in when I failed to get the letters I expected.  I dare not begin it now, for I’d never get through with this.  If I write much more you’ll beg for mercy, or else not read it at all.  The time since last Sunday is lost—dark ages—ages to me, which time can never restore.  I so much like the diary system,--of writing each day and sending them semi-weekly.  But of course that can only be done if both parties do the same.  A one sided correspondence will never prosper—must fall.  A man stricken with paralysis on one side cannot stand.  A correspondence  glowing with affection and full of hearty expressions of same on one side,--the positive,--must create a shock when met by careful and doubtful expressions on the other,--the negative.  I could write you every day, every hour, if I even expected answers in due course of mail, but failing to get them what shall I say?  Knowing that the feelings I entertain towards you are not reciprocated, can I daily or weekly annoy you with recitals, the reading of which must, necessarily, be objected to?  

But what am I doing?  You are, of course, tired and I’m not half through.  There is one thing more in your letter I must answer.  You wish to know how much or how little Dr. Fox knows of our affairs, correspondence, etc.  He knows just what civility and courteous friendship demanded I should tell him.  No more.  He knows that I like you but does not know that I have told you so.  He knows that I have written you once, and that you answered in a “charming, polite” letter.  No more.  He does not know a word that I ever said to or wrote you, nor a word you ever said to or wrote me.  He does not know that I am going to send you anything Christmas, but I wish you would tell him—tell them all, as I suggested in my letter of 25th Nov.  But he came near knowing more.  Yesterday in my desperation I wrote him a letter.  I recited my ill feelings, etc., and asked him to find out if he could, the reasons, etc.  I thought I’d keep the letter, however, until after the mail was distributed and if there was nothing from you, I’d mail it.  But there was one from you and Dr. Fox will never get my letter.  It was all addressed, stamped and everything.—to keep you well abreast I guess I’ll just enclose it!  And as it is 11 o’clock, good night—God bless you.  


Sunday—Dec. 16—After sleeping on the proposition of sending you my letter to Dr. Fox, I guess I’d better not do it.  It is a letter from one man to another man, and although you are perfectly welcome to read it, probably you do not care to.  I will keep it though, and some day—anytime you ask me—I will send it to you.  

I’m not well this morning.  Last night, my window, near the bed, slipped down from the top, and about daylight I wakened with a cold.  A cold always makes me feel miserable, but I seldom have them, and never was sick in bed for more than a day at a time in my life.  

And now about the Christmas gifts.  That part of your letter saying you would accept them pleased me very much.   Remember, dear Emily, they carry with them no obligation.  They are pledges of my lo --, of what I think of you and are yours to keep, or to do with as you like.  One thing I send is mine and only loan it until I replace it with another.  That is the little chain.  It is made of gold once in my mother’s chain, and no one shall ever own it but my wife.  Please take good care of the little chain, and when you do not care for me returned by Express.  And speaking of Express—If you should ever desire to return it (but you won’t, will you?) take the parcel to the United States Express office, and to the agent, D. T. Parker, whose desk is the first one to the right, entering from 4th St.  He is an old friend of mine and all my St. Louis Express business is done through him.  He will always take pains to send me anything, carefully, and of course, free of charge.  The day after you get this you will receive a parcel.  It will contain a watch and chain, and the pearl earrings and ring.  The watch is a stem winder, and a perfect time keeper.  I wore it a week and it varied a few seconds only.  It is in perfect order now, and unless some accident occurs, will only need winding and setting.  To set the hands, pull the winding stem up, about the sixteenth of an inch and then turn the hand, with the stem, pushing it back to its place when set.  Always wind it regularly, at some agreed hour and it will need no further setting or regulating.  When you open it always hold your finger so the case will not spring back and it will always close and open smoothly.  If that received your permission in proper time I intended to have “Emily” in handsome letters chased in the case, and my picture painted on the face, but there has been no time since the receipt of your letter.  If there had been time I would also have had the pearls set different.  My friend, the workman who does such things, said silver was too soft and dull and suggested gold setting.  If there had been time he wanted to make a handsome thing, by setting around each pearl a row of turquoise and rose diamonds, the three colors, he said, matching and balancing together.  He said the pearls, by themselves, are dull but that the contrasts made the pearls stand out and glow.  I suggested white diamonds (your little ring is white), but he said brilliants would not go with pearls—they must be rose diamonds.  After the holidays, or at any time hereafter; if you will send them back to me I will get Mr. Man to fix them up nicely and return to you the handsome set.  But you may think they are pretty enough, as they are.  That will be for you to decide—they will be yours and you can do with them as you like.  Please accept these little gifts, dear Emily, from me, and wear them and keep them, always, for my token.  

Indeed I didn’t intend to write you such a long letter.  But how can I help it?  It’s a week today since I wrote you, and I want to write every day, but dare not.  If you liked me as I like you I would do it, and you’d write quite as often.  But I’m awfully afraid—afraid you’ll never like me well enough to permit it.  I do want you to believe me, dear Emily, and believe all I have written to you.  In reason, why not?  Do you think if I didn’t care for you as I say I would write to you every day, and long letters too?  No, I would not.  Why should I try to deceive you?  What end would I gain by it?  There is a motive in every action.  What possible motive could I have to sit for hours and tell you I like you, if I didn’t really mean it?  No man is so base as that—for it would be baseness unparalleled.  I do like you, dear Emily, or I wouldn’t tell you so.  If you can like me I would be happy.  I do not wish you to deceive yourself, tho, in believing you might, if in reality there is a doubt in your mind.  I would not want you if there was the smallest doubt existing.  If you like me please tell me so, but if not be as honest as in the letter beside (?) me, and say it outright.  Don’t scruple about offending me.  It is better now, will be better in the end, no matter what comes, that we be outspoken all the time.  Before I close this letter I want to tell you to reassure you in as positive a manner as I can, without the use of objectionable adjectives, that I think more of you every day, and shall continue to do so until the prohibition comes.  Even then I’ll like you well, very well, but will not bother you with hearing or reading about it.  __I like you, Miss Emily Lofland__...  

Next Sunday I will write you a short letter, unless before that time you tell me not to do it.  If, in the meantime, I get a letter from you I may write a short answer.  My letter writing in the future will be governed by what I get from you and the contents of your letters.  By the first of January, at farthest, I expect to hear from you either that I may or may not hope.  What I receive from you between now and then will influence my correspondence, and—possibly—my whole future life.  

Please write to me as often as you get any letters, dear Emily, and do not for one moment forget that I am in earnest have been and confirm all the adjectives previously written.  God bless you.  

Faithfully J.S.R. ~
