---
layout: post
title: December 19, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My dear Fox,  

Yesterday I ordered sent from Sacramento, two salmon addressed to D.T. Parker, with directions ofr one of them to be sent to your house.  The fish will, I suppose, be large enough for two Christmas dinners, and of course you'll divide with Mr. Lofland's family.  

A Merry Christmas to you all.  

Yours Ever Jos. S. Roberson  

Dr. J.M. Fox  
14 Nicholson Place  

-------------------------------  


Wednesday, Dec. 19, 1877 4 p.m.  

My dear Emily~  

It is pretty astonishing—(to everybody else) that of late I’ve got a fondness for the office, after regular hours.  For nine years I took the first opportunity to get away of an employ (?), and seldom came near on Sunday or of nights.  Now, I linger around until dark and after, and generally as soon as everybody else leaves, grab a pen and paper and begin writing.  Of course you don’t want to know who I write to, but you do know, and I won’t tell you.  Would you believe that I have written sheet after sheet that I have never sent?  It is a positive fact.  I’ve written letters to you that I know you’d laugh at.  I’ve sent some of them, but lots more went into the waste basket, torn up so fine that a patient worker in mosaics could never put the pieces together.  I’ve got so I take no delight in anything but my own thoughts about a darling person--and affecting the way I think is to write.  You know there’s a peculiarity about thought.  It must be defined some way, put into some kind of colloquial shape.  For instance, there are people who speak several different languages, one as well as the others, but they invariably think in one language.  With me it must be through the medium of words (?).  I’ve just been studying up how I could get something to you (--?--), and compromised on the press copy.  How convenient!  I just wrote Dr. Fox a little bit of a letter, took a copy of it and sent the copy to you.  I dared not put a line into it to you, but I wanted to, dear Emily, and now you know it.  Now don’t say you don’t, for you do. I hope the salmon was big enough for two families.  If it wasn’t, I’ll be awfully mad at our Sacramento Agent, who was directed to send it.  I sent the original letter to the doctor, to Mrs. Fox, and on the outside of the inside envelope asked her to give my kindest regards to Miss Emily.  If she showed it to you, see how carefully I placed your name the very last.  I thought of you first though,--in fact the whole thing was a weak invention to send a word to Emily.  I’ll bet you Mrs. Fox saw through it.  She maybe, has done the same thing with the doctor, but I’ll bet a new fan, she’d say she never.  She’d persuade herself that she may too.  How we try to deceive ourselves!  Did you ever think of that?  

I’ve been thinking all day about what you said in your last letter about your desire still to learn to sing, that is to say to try and improve your voice.   I don’t think you could ever improve it,--you sing perfectly now—to me, but of course I don’t know.  You say you think my opinion on that subject is not correct.  Maybe not.  It is not, if you say so.  I was only giving my ideas.  Now I’m going to reason a little bit about it, and give one or two things I know about, and you mustn’t get mad at me.  I don’t mean (?) faultily, not to try and dissuade you from your cherished hope.  This essay – you called yours an essay—why not mine?  This essay is only my side of the question, and before saying anything I want to tell you to forgive all I do say.  I don’t want to be headstrong, and will gracefully yield the point.  To begin—The stage, all appearances in public, lecture, opera, concert, everything of the kind is a business.  Those who succeed in such things have to be educated to it from childhood.  Dr. Fox knows more in one minute, on any subject; has a better appreciation of words and what they express; reads Shakespeare better and is better in every particular, physically, mentally, morally, intellectually than John McCullough, yet McCullough would be applauded where Fox would be denounced even if both should study and play the same parts.  The reason is, McCullough knows all about the business.  Now I want to tell you something that occurred under my own observation.  About two years and a half ago, a gentleman from the East—Mr. Huntley by name, a particular friend of mine, arrived in this city, having in charge three ladies; one his sister, Miss Sophia Huntley, then about 18 years old, Miss Rice and Mrs. Reed.  I was telegraphed to and met them.  I know the Huntleys, but never had heard of Mrs. Reed or Miss Rice.  When I saw them I was let into a secret, and was to be one of two gentlemen, only, who was to know anything about it.  Mrs. Reed was a handsome fresh looking, bright widow, probably 25 years old.  Miss Rice was a charming young lady from Buffalo, N.Y., a daughter of Judge Rice.  Mr. Huntley, my friend, a gentleman of standing in business and society in New York and Washington and Spain (?).  His sister (this was during vacation), a school girl.  Mrs. Reed was by birth a Southerner, a Baltimorean, whose parents had been wealthy always, until the war, and were ruined with most everybody else.  Mrs. Reed had always had a great talent for music, but married very young.  She spent several (I believe all her married) years in Europe.  While there she was thoroughly educated in music, probably as well as a gifted young woman, with every advantage could be educated.  She appeared over time, in Italian opera in Europe, and everybody said she was perfect.  She came here to make her debut as a Prima Donna, under an assumed name, (I forgot what it was, but it is the Italian word for Reed).  She had been heralded for two weeks.  I had seen the bills and wondered who the “greatest prima donna of the age” was—wondered who “Katherine -----“ was. (I wish I could think of the name.)  If you can translate Kate Reed into Italian you’ll know the name.  Nobody was to know her, but those she came with, Mr. Ramsdell and myself.  That evening at the Grand Hotel, she opened the piano, Miss Rice—who plays well but didn’t sing—accompanied her with music, and Mrs. Reed sang, just to see if the trip had affected her voice.  Mr. Ramsdell and myself were excused, and Ramsdell (after we left the ladies that evening) took me outside and said “by Jove old fellow, did you ever hear anything like it?  Never did I hear such a sweet and such a powerful voice, so well trained and altogether so perfect.”—She sang one or two pieces in the parlor that evening, but obliged to desist, for in three minutes the parlor was full of people and all the halls were full, enticed there by the wonderful sweetness of Mrs. Reed’s singing.  Nobody knew who she was, and nobody could find out, for of me they only learned she was “Mrs. Reed, a friend of the Huntleys”.  In about a week she was to appear.  She was the “Card”, although they had Mrs. Caroline Richings, Mrs. Sequin, Miss Annendale and others, who made up the engagement of the Hess Opera troupe.  At last the night came for Mrs. Reed to appear.  She had rehearsed her part in her rooms with Miss Richings, and on the stage.  She knew every note of the whole opera.  I believe (not certain) it was Maritana.  We all went with her, Mr. Ramsdell, Mr. Huntley, Miss Rice, Sophie and myself.  Mr. Huntley and Miss Rice went behind the scenes with Mrs. Reed.  Ramsdell, Sophie and myself in front with the necessary wreaths, flowers, decorations etc.  She came on……..Mrs. Reed made a failure!  Mr. Hess would not allow her to appear again, paid her salary for the whole time, but wouldn’t allow her to sing any more.  Poor Mrs. Reed—I thought it would break her heart.  We tried to cheer her but there was no use—she knew she had failed.  I didn’t know it for I didn’t understand music well enough.  There was something wanting—I don’t know what—but she failed.  I saw her in New York when I was there over a year ago.   She told me she would never sing again, except in the church choir groups, and was soon going to be married and hoped to be contented and happy.  

4 p.m. Thursday.  I wrote last night until dark and had to quit.  I had some paper ruled today, and hope my lines will be straight now.  I don’t believe I finished the “Essay”, but I have very little more to add.  I want to say that because Mrs. Reed failed it is no reason, to my mind, why Miss Emily Lofland should.  Richelieu—I believe—told some young fellow that there was no such word as fail.  Persistent effort often accomplishes much.  Do you remember the story of the Scotch Chieftain, Robert Bruce?  It is said that after two defeats in battle he was retreating from the foe, and was compelled to halt for rest.  That lying on his cot in an old cabin by the wayside lamenting his ill fate, he was attracted by a spider diligently and patiently trying to spin his thread from rafter to rafter.  Twice the spider fell to the ground, but each time he industriously ascended the post and began his work anew.  The third time he was successful, and Bruce, newed by the lesson of untiring perseverance, taught by so small a thing, rose up, rallied his men, went back and routed the enemy.  Perseverance accomplishes much, but what is the reward, if the end is gained?  Would you be happier?  To my mind there is only one road to true happiness.  All others are mythical and lead into the gloom.  It is not there—it is always ahead—“down there.”  There is a beautiful poem by Berenger on Happiness.  I have seen several translations but the pretty one I cannot find any more.  In French they say it is perfectly splendid.  The story is that a youth starts out to find happiness.  To each place that he is directed he goes, but each time he is told, with a shake of the head, and a smile, that he has to go “down there”,--somewhere else—to find it.  He doesn’t find it at all.  Johnson’s Rasselas tells the story beautifully.  I think, dear Emily, that you sing better than anybody.  God has given you a wonderful talent.  Why not be content to use it to please one person?  Why not be satisfied with the praise of the one person you select from all the world to be your companion for life, your strong support?  He—whoever he may be—will never allow an “emergency” (as you expressed it) to arise by which you will have to sing as a necessity.  Take my word for that.  Whenever you like one man well enough to say to him “I will follow you, my husband”, he will want all your affections, all your singing.  If you like him well enough to say it to him you will grant him what he asks, you will allow him to be the monarch he will want to be.  He will want to be supreme in your heart, but he will not abuse the trust and confidence and reliance.  When he is Monarch, then will he be your subject, paradoxical as it may appear.  Over a hundred years ago a poet beautifully expressed the sentiment:  

> My dear and onliy love, I pray  
> That little world of thee  
> Be govern'd by no other sway  
> But purest monarchy:  
> For if confusion have a part,  
> Which virtuous souls abhor,  
> I'll call a synod in my heart  
> And never love thee more.  

> As Alexander I will reign,  
> And I will reign alone,  
> My thoughts shall evermore disdain  
> A rival on my throne.  
> He either fears his fate too much,  
> Or his deserts are small,  
> Who dares not put it to the touch  
> To gain or lose it all.  

> But I will reign and govern still,  
> And always give the law,  
> And have each subject at my will,  
> And all to stand in awe.  
> But 'gainst my battery, if I find  
> Thou storm or vex me sore  
> As if thou set one as a blind,  
> I'll never love thee more.  

> And in the empire of thy heart,  
> Where I should solely be,  
> If others do pretend a part  
> And dares to vie with  me;  
> or if committees thou erect,  
> or go on such a score,  
> I'll smiling mock at thy neglect,  
> And never love thee more.  

> But if no faithless action stain  
> Thy love and constant word,  
> I'll make thee famous by my pen  
> And glorious by my sword:  
> I'll serve thee in such noble ways  
> As never was known before;  
> I'll deck and crown thy head with bays,  
> And love thee more and more.  

These are only my ideas, dear Emily, and I’m most always wrong.  I’m willing to acknowledge it, anyway, and concede the point.  

I find it is almost dark again.  What short days these are.  I’ve already lighted the gas, and guess I’d better quit and go home to dinner.  If I keep this thing up until Sunday it will be a great long see, averaging two pages daily, but yesterday there were three—Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday—five days—ten pages!  Won’t that tire you?
Yes (?)—Well, all right—I’ll try—try, I said,--to make it less, but I’m afraid this’ll be all of ten pages.  I’ll do my best to make it short.  But you know, I’ve got so much to say.  I want to be saying it all the time.  I’m an awful bore, but I can’t help it.  I do like you Emily.  

Friday, Dec. 21, 4 p.m.  
I think I shall reconsider what I intended doing, and so stated, previously, in this letter, and finish and send it along by next mail.  If I wait until Sunday it will be so large and so bulky and so long that it will make your eyes ache worse than the other one did.   I guess I’ll just fill this sheet and then wait until Sunday and write again, a short one, you know, provided I get a letter from you in the meantime.  

In your letter, which I have this minute read once more, I find these words: “Now, I never intend to be the one left behind.  “I don’t know nuthin” now, and the other party would soon leave me standing by the way-side, if I hadn’t made up my mind that it shouldn’t be so.”  Now, Miss Emily, I’m vexed.  You mustn’t underrate yourself, for you are doing it surely..I know that you know a great deal,--that you are just the most charming, quick, bright, intelligent, dear girl in all the universe.  The “other party” (I wonder who he can be) couldn’t leave you standing still even if he tried.  But he wouldn’t if he could.  Don’t you talk that way anymore, dear Emily, or I’ll be awfully vexed.  You say “doubtless you will laugh when you read this.”  Me laugh!  At what?  Why, you dear girl,--but you don’t mean it.  You can’t mean that I could or would smile at such expressions, convincing as they do the nobleness of your heart.  I want to read just such letters for they give an insight to your feelings, to what you think.  Let them come, just that way.  Speculate upon life and its trials, hopes, rewards.  I want you to.  

So you think because Charley’s in love he can’t write to me?  Do you think he excels me in his heart-feelings?  And yet I write from 50 to 200 letters every day, and then have enough time left to annoy you to your heart’s content.  But I do get a little mixed in my business sometimes, and write to some agent “Dear Emily”, and kind of compliment him on his good looks or something of that sort.  Charley could write me a line, if he wished.  You think I’ll say “just like a sister and a woman.” I can’t blame you for trying to keep the love of your brother.  But you won’t be able to do it long, dear Emily.  His heart will sooner or later give its allegiance elsewhere, and --- you will do the same, some day, freely give up Charley for some other fellow.  It is the natural course of life.  Your father, your mother, --all--, everybody, give up their fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters and cast their lot, for good—often for bad—with somebody else, and down the hill they go together, fighting the battle of life.  It must come, dear Emily, in the lives of nearly everybody.  I’m an exception.  So far I’ve toddled along alone and I reckon will finish the journey, with no sympathizing companion.  

There, I got to the bottom of that sheet before I knew it, but this must be the last.  You must be fearfully tired by this time.  

I went to the Theatre last night.  I put the bill in my pocket for you, and enclose it.  So you see I thought of you last night.  The gentleman who owns this theatre is a particular friend of mine, and last night he took me behind the scenes.  How different everything looks!  The girls who are so much admired for beauty by the audience are painted all over, arms, hands, neck, face.  The paint looks like it was put on with a white wash brush.  And then the untidy appearance of everything—it is astonishing.  When I went in front again I wondered at the difference.  I don’t want to go back there anymore.  It takes all the romance away.  

I find in my pocket two letters, all addressed, ready to send to you.  One contains the apologies I told you the other night I’d been writing.  I guess I’ll just enclose it in this that you may see the mood I was in then.  You won’t be mad, will you?  The other is the press copy, alluded to somewhere in this letter.  I didn’t send it that evening, because I thought as I had written you the evening before maybe I had better not. This thought came into my head after I had left the office.  But I’ll send it, too, just to show you that I think of you once in a while.  

I’m awfully lonesome dear Emily, and get the blues very often and very severely.  Sometimes I think life is too long—that is, a useless life is too long.  Mine is of no possible use to anybody.  It matters not much to anyone if I come or go, if I am here or there or nowhere. Some people say “why don’t you make it useful?” –But how?  Nobody can tell me.  If I like anybody, they won’t like me in return.  If I get a companion he soon finds someone—a female—to give his attention to.  All my old and particular friends are married.  The very time I want company they are at home with their wives.  It’s lonesome, it’s lonely.  I grow morose, sour, ill natured and petulant.  My ideas get fixed and I’m disagreeable.  It’s all because I’ve nobody to share with me my joys, divide with me my sorrows, be glad if I am successful or sympathize with reverses.  It’s a fearful thing—an old bachelor is a fearful thing; he is a monster.  Don’t let your brothers be old bachelors.  Encourage them in their loves.  And don’t you forget, Emily, dear Emily, that I think as much and more of you as either one of your brothers, and wish you’d let me tell you so.  

Faithfully, JSR
