---
layout: post
title: December 04, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
Tuesday  

Darling Emily --  

It has just occurred to me why I love the beautiful weather we are having between the rains.  Because you are having disagreeable, probably cold days in St. Louis, I know how it used to be—rain, chilly, snowy.  Is it so now?  In the summer we have rain days, but not many.  Over in Oakland, however, it is always pleasant.  These days, pretty soon, I’m going over there and  I’m going to buy a little cottage, with a flower garden in front, just a cozy little place with a parlor (for a piano) a nice little sitting room, dining room, kitchen and two or three chambers.  Then I shall go over there and live—all by myself.  What a shame!  But if anybody ever does like me “purty well”, --well enough to come to California, it will be hers, and the flowers will be there for her to look after, and there will be a little room for her mother and father and she and they can live there, and I’ll board with her, if she’ll let me. But I’ll want her to be my dear little wife first.  Can you imagine who I’d ask to occupy the little cottage?  No?  Guess again.  

Tomorrow I must get my letter.  If I don’t won’t I be blue—regular indigo.  I show a little violet today.  I think I’ll keep the balance of this sheet to write on tomorrow.  If I don’t get my letter, half of this page will be enough to record all of the lamentations you will care to read.  But if I don’t get it I will still love you my darling, as I do right now—this minute—devotedly, affectionately.  

Wednesday, Dec. 5th, 9 a.m.—And no letter. The mail has been brought up, but what I most wished, half expected, was not there.  I will not tell you how blue I feel.  Try and imagine it.  

Last night I went to the theater.  Did I think of you while there?  The heroine was named Emily.  I brought away the bill for you, and enclose it.  The play was good and the scenic effects magnificent.  The orchestra played some beautiful pieces, and __I did think of you all the time__.  

This morning as I came to the office I dropped into the Jewelers to see how your watch was running.  The man reported it perfect, but said it should be worn and noticed a few days to be sure that the movement, temperature of the body etc. did not change it, so, Miss Emma, I am wearing your watch (but I’ll take good care of it, my darling).  And will do so until about the 16th, when  --if you will permit (and I should have your answer by that time) – I will speed it along by express so that you may put it on your Christmas tree.  I keep it in a chamois bag to keep from rubbing or scratching.  It is a beauty and you will say so.  

Darling, I haven’t much heart to write this morning, I’m so scared.  But I will get my letter—two of them—before Sunday, won’t I?  After that I’ll get at least two a week, won’t I, dear little woman?  If you can’t love me make me happy a little while, anyway,--but can’t you learn to love me just a little bit, darling Emily, while you have all my—all—my best and purest affections?  

Yours, Jos S Roberson
