---
layout: post
title: December 18, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My dear Emily:---  

As I still fail to get answers to the letters I have written you, I am more and more convinced that my manner and expressions have been disagreeable; and desire, now, to apologize, and promise it so differently if you permit our correspondence to proceed.  It is a natural thing, I reckon, to try and excuse our faults, which I will attempt.  I start out by saying I thought I had permission, not only to write but to write as I did.  You will remember, no doubt, that in the pencil scribbling, at D. Fox’s one day, I used the words I now believe objectionable, and you asked me to allow you to keep it.  In the first letter I wrote you after my return I used some words, and before closing expressed a fear that my manner might not be pleasing; to which you answered:  “You also ask me if your manner of writing is disagreeable; am I not a woman; and are we not all the same?  When a woman is loved doesn’t she like to be told of the love?”  Clearly, then, I thought I had your authority.  The use of such terms is seldom disagreeable.  Perhaps I made an abuse of them.  I am sorry and beg pardon.  

That such expressions have been common in correspondence between people of opposite sexes since the beginning of the world I have no doubt.  I certainly read it in fiction, history, and biographies of all persons whose lives have been of sufficient importance to hand down to posterity.  I cite as proof one thing that I happen to think of just now.  In the volume of “English Humorists”, by Thackeray, see the foot notes to his lecture on Richard Steele.  In one of Steele’s letters to the lady whom he afterwards married, he begins, “Dear, lovely Mrs. Scurlock.”  In another, in an apostrophe to love, he quotes:  
> A thousand torments dwell about thee,  
> Yet who could live, to live without thee?  

In Victor Hugo’s Les Miserables, I think I remember these words, after giving an interview between two people who loved each other:  “A man who has not heard these things, who has not uttered them is a wicked man.” – I believe I could use up two pages in quoting authorities for the use of endearing epithets.  Strong terms, even between men, are permissible in correspondence.  As proof of this assertion I enclose you a letter, received only a few days ago, from –(?) in Washington, one of the best writers of the day, in same whose description of –-a flume ride? – You read in D. Fox’s Guide book.  In fact I do not see how a correspondence could be conducted, employing only the words used in ordinary discourse and conversation.  To my mind correspondence means something more.  As,--a painter who copies nature, only, makes tame pictures.  A photograph is a correct counterfeit of anything, yet who prefers one to a painting?  

I imagine that the letters of any two persons of different sexes would appear ridiculous and foolish to a third person.  This is natural, yet to the parties themselves they are not so.  Of course no one has seen the letters either of us have written, but if by any mischance they should fall into other hands wouldn’t they be the subject of everlasting teasing?  Such a calamity shall never happen on either side, I am sure—matter-of-fact Mrs. Fox notwithstanding the assertion she made—(the doctor was surprised, you remember),--the night I saw you last, that she always showed the doctor’s letters to her mother (!!) would not, now—after years of married life—I will venture to say, be willing to parade his letters at a “select gathering”, even though the “party” numbered only __one__.  

All this, however, amounts to nothing while the fact exists that my letters are not agreeable in manner and construction.  What I want to get at is this:  I would like for you to suggest something, some manner that would not be displeasing.  I do not want to lose you as a correspondent, do not wish to be ordered to stop writing.  Please tell me.  Please burn the objectionable letters and let’s begin anew, on a sounder basis.  If you will only tell me how I can please you I’ll try it, say “thank-you, Miss,” and be the happiest fellow in California.  

Faithfully, J.S.R.  


Tuesday~9 p.m. Dec. 18, 1877  

My dear Emily~  

I have just returned from the Post office, where I found the dearest letter on earth.  I shan’t tell who it is from, but if you’ll look in the glass you’ll see the dear face, a pleasure I am entirely denied, so far.  Dear Emily, you wrote a charming letter and must be complimented, and yet you say you dare not read it over.  But I read it over—I’ve read it twice, and it’s only been in my hands a few minutes.  It is a charming letter, elegantly expressed, and I won’t hear you abuse my correspondent.  Don’t you do it again, Miss Emily, to me or I’ll be mad with you.  There is one thing I want you to do, and that right soon dear Emily.  Tell me how I may talk to you.  I don’t know really.  I know how I want to talk, and what I want to say, but I’m afraid all the time.  Afraid you don’t like it.  Let me talk to you as I wish, please, dear Emily.  I’ve been awfully blue lately, and stayed in the office till nearly 7 o’clock tonight, writing—shall I tell you?  Writing apologies to you for the manner of my letters.  I won’t send it now.  Indeed I’m afraid now you’ll become offended at my lack.  The more I think about that letter the more I’m afraid you’ll think me unkind and quarrelsome.  But I didn’t mean bad, indeed I didn’t.  I never will mean bad towards you, my dear Emily, and you must forgive anything that seems so.  I like you better that I thought it possible for any man to love a woman.  I do, I do,  I do.  It would be a great affliction to lose you, for, unchristian-like as it may appear, I like you better than I do my Maker.  There, I’ve said it, and you mustn’t be mad at me.  Tell me what I may say to you, what I may call you.  May I say what I want?  May I call you as I like?  

I’m going to write you a great, long letter between now and next Sunday.  You won’t be mad, will you?  I would do it now, tonight, but you’ll get this the morning after Christmas, and of course you’ll be tied up with the Christmas gayities.  You’ll have the little trifles I sent you, too, and will you, dear Emily, write me a line on that day telling me if you think your things are pretty?  I hope you’ll think so.  I hope, I hope, but I’m hoping away.  

Today I’ve been to Oakland trying to buy the little house I told you of.  You know who I thought of, all the time, don’t you?  I do.  Emily.  She I like, I like so very, very well, she I like better than all Oakland, all California, all the world.  I didn’t get the house yet, but will.  Then—then, suppose I have to live there alone!  Today I’ve been to Oakland trying to buy the little house I told you of.  You know who I thought of, all the time, don’t you?  I do.  Emily.  She I like, I like so very, very well, she I like better than all Oakland, all California, all the world.  I didn’t get the house yet, but will.  Then—then, suppose I have to live there alone!  

I wish I could write more,  I want to,  I want to write all the time.  Don’t have headaches, dear Emily.  Please don’t be sick.  Be well all the time.  Believe that I love (there!) you all the time, always.  I do.  

Faithfully, J.S.R.
