---
layout: post
title: November 25, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
San Francisco, Sunday, Nov. 25, 1877 - 1 p.m.  

My darling~  

I’ve been horseback riding this morning – I go every day.  After I left you, that lonely night, I went to Kansas, bought two horses and brought them out for Mr. Valentine.  He has gone to New York, and hasn’t seen them, and I have to do the exercising in his absence.  One is the most perfect riding animal I have ever backed, and I love to ride him.  Every time I do I think of you (but I do that all the time anyway), and wish you were here to ride him, with me on the other one, by your side.  The first day or two how tired I was!  I wasn’t used to it and it was hard work, although Prince (that’s the name of my pet horse) is just like a cradle.  This morning, with a friend on the bay, I mounted Prince and we went out by the road to the Cliff House, took breakfast, then around the beach and back through the Park.  Look at the maps and pictures I sent D. Fox and you can trace our course.  By the way, to whom do you suppose I sent those pictures?  To D. Fox, I reckon!  To – I reckon not – to Emily.  Remember I was afraid to send them to you.  Why can’t I send you anything I like?  I wish I could.  

I dreamt of you yesterday morning, just as I was ready to get up, and wakened with you in my thoughts.  I thought I had built a small cottage, and it wasn’t yet finished---the windows were boarded up, and no one was living there.  I went to see how the workmen were getting along, and your mother opened the door.  As she did I heard a piano and your voice singing the very piece you laid out that night – the one I did not acknowledge at the time (please forgive me) – and I rushed in.  There you were, my darling, and you got up, came to me, put your head against my breast and said  “here is my home.”  Isn’t that a pretty dream to waken me?  And I had the same one in St. Louis, that is nearly the same.  Didn’t I tell you about it?  I think I did.  Will it ever come true? You can answer that question, and some day I want you to do it, that is if you can say yes.  If not, then I don’t want it answered.  

The weather is perfectly charming.  The mornings are as bright and sunny as your dear face, and when I go out early, by myself usually, I think of – you – nothing else.  I love to be alone now, because then I think of somebody I love – Emily.  

I’ve got so many things to say that it seems I can never get at the answering of your letter.  But I will do it, and then see if I have written enough to __almost__ bore you.  I don’t want to get quite to that point but am afraid, all the time, I’ll write too much.  

The little geranium leaf you sent came just as nice as anything could be, and shall be kept always.  I will think up some cunning little way to preserve it and have it always in sight.  The superstition about the slip you planted will come out all right.  __The plant will grow__, or else the superstition is a false one.  It will grow and grow until it is big as an oak, and will never die.  Believe it.  

Now about the locket and the cross.  I’m sorry you hesitate.  I don’t know what to do about it.  Perhaps it is better, for the present, to allow the cross to remain with me.  But it is yours, you know, and heaps of other pretty trifles I have are yours, and __I am yours__, if you will have me.  “Barkis is willin.”  Let me tell you what I’m going to do Christmas.  I’m going to send you the pearl earrings and pearl ring, set in silver.  Wear these when you get ‘em, please, my darling, and tell Mrs. Fox and all of them that I sent them for a Christmas present.  There’s no harm in it, on my honor, and don’t let them tease you.  In good time you must have the cameo set and some other pretty things which you have not seen.  The cross, maybe, would look pretty to pin a black velvet ribbon around your neck.  Don’t laugh.  An old bachelor’s taste may be horrid, and I only suggested.  Emma, darling, please answer this paragraph, fully.  

To this paragraph, see closing sentence. – I intend, one of these days and not very many months hence, either --- to ask you to be my dear little wife, and I’m going to promise you to be the best kind of a fellow, too, __and I’m going to keep my promise__, if you consent.  I don’t ask it now, because I’m not sure yet, that I can make you as happy as I want you to be, and for fear __you’ll refuse__.  I don’t ask  you, either to engage yourself to me because I want you to be perfectly free to ask in case you should  “like somebody else better”, and I want your \*\*\*\* seriously, and have plenty of time to reflect before I do ask it.  I shall not change in my love, __except to love you more__.  I don’t want your impulse to govern you.  When I do ask it, it will be the most serious proposition of my life, and the only __similar one I ever made__.   Believe that, dear Emily and  \*\*\*\*\* me for preparing your mind for something I intend to say, but, as I said in a previous letter I will always be honest with you, and think it is better for both to reflect long and earnestly upon probabilities, possibilities, etc.  You need not—now—answer any part of this paragraph, __unless you wish__, or have made up your mind, one way or the other, as positively as I have.  

To get back to the answering of your letter.  My darling, there is one thing I’d rather you wouldn’t do.  I don’t want you to take a part in the private theatricals, or in anything where you have to appear in public.  Am I wrong about it?  If so pardon me.  But I think not.  I want you for the charming, interesting little woman you are, not for the public gaze, nor the critical, heartless worldly talk.  Please don’t foster a taste for publicity of any kind.  Do you remember what I said to you in the theater?  I didn’t want you to learn singing.  You sing well, very well.  Don’t learn it any better.  I think you sing better than Kellogg, Carey, Nillson or anybody.  If you took singing lessons, and got to be a great singer, you’d want to appear in public, to receive the flattery of the multitude, and then you’d become heartless.  No, no, be a dear little woman with a woman’s heart and mind, a loving, kind woman, loving only one, loved by only one.  Its best, its happiest, its fulfilling the mission God intended you have.  No matter who the man is, when you learn to love him, be his, as he will be yours, cling to him till death and show him the frivolities, the gloss of the world.  The world, like the \*\*\*\* is tinsel, and tarnishes.  Love is pure gold and \*\*\*\* the world.  Think of these things, dear Emma, and think of them seriously.  I have seen the heartless workings of the workings of gloss \*\*\*\*\* and know there is no peace there.  All appearances, all infatuations of the stage lead to ----- nothing.  

If this letter appears critical attribute it to my great love for you.  I think it best to tell you of my likes, my dislikes, my ideas, fancies, etc.  I do not mean it faultily.  I’m only trying to make you know me, to see if by reason and perfect confidence, we can’t get closer to each other in everything.  Shall I write this way any more?  Please tell me.   I invite your full confidence.  

Like a little child I never know when to stop talking.  I reckon you are tired.  But I could write to you until midnight.  I will write you again next Sunday – but you may look for a short card in four days.  That one doesn’t count, you know.  Tell me how often I may write.  Don’t forget one thing, darling Emily, and that is something I may have forgotten in this and in any previous letters, namely, I love you, Emily.  

Your, Jo