---
layout: post
title: November 30, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
San Francisco, Nov. 30th, 1877 - Friday  

My Darling,  

Yesterday was Thanksgiving day in California.  Our good democratic Governor told us all to be good, and I believe everybody was measurable so.  I was invited out to Mr. Rowell’s to dinner.  Mr. R. is one of the Assistant Superintendents of this company, and Mrs. R. had one of the finest turkeys I ever saw, which everybody did full justice to.  After dinner, the madam played on the piano—which made me think of you, (which should be no news if you saw my thoughts all the time, for I think of you continually, dear little woman)—and she showed us her paintings, --she is quite an amateur artist, and then we talked awhile and I came away.  I forgot to say that in the morning I took a ride on Prince, the prince of saddle horses, and looked on awhile at the working mens procession, which numbered about six thousand men.  The day was one of the loveliest of the season, and just now the weather is charming.  I think I told you our winter months were the most pleasant.  The rains are not disagreeable, and when it is not raining we have no unpleasant cloudy weather, but bright warm sunshine.  Everybody, everything feels good.  The grass is green, the flowers are in bloom—all nature is glad.  Yesterday Prince capered and tried to show me that he, too, felt the inspiration which seemed to be infused into every living thing.  If I could have spent the day with my darling, heard you sing, if I could have sat and been company without talking, (as you so delightfully expressed the thing one day), then would my happiness have been complete.  I did think of you all day; I wondered every minute what you were doing; and all night I dreamed of you.  Am I a silly boy to be thinking and dreaming of a darling girl all the time?  Does any darling girl think and dream of a silly boy?  Do you think it foolish to be writing you such nonsense?   I rather think you do and smile when you get my letters.  Well, well, it’s me, all over, and I’m trying to make you acquainted with me.  I know what you think.  Now tell me if I guess.  Here’s the way your thoughts go:  “He hasn’t much to do, surely.  I wonder if he thinks I believe all he says.  He just writes that way to flatter, and believes me to be like all other women, fond of it.   I’ll let him think so awhile and then tell him he’s mistaken.”  And then you’ll muse and get out one of the letters, read it over and think:  “No, he is honest, he does love me.  Can I love him?  Must I?  I don’t know anything about him, but I believe he loves me.  I’ll try.”  How’s that?  Did I guess it?  Talk to me about these things, won’t you, dear Emily?  I want you to.  Please me, please.  Say just what you think.  The grave shall give up its dead sooner than I will betray you.  Write it down.  Let’s be the best kind of friends, keeping nothing back.  If two people love one another they should be friends.  One “people” loves another “people”, but------------I’m awfully afraid, -- afraid you don’t love me, Emily. Just think I’ve written you a “whole lot” of letters in this strain, but have received only one from you, and the best consolation I can make to my heart is your oral declaration “I think I like you better than anybody else.”  Emily, won’t you say something more on that subject?  I suppose I must wait, but “wait” is a terrible word,--I hate it.  I can’t wait.  I wish I knew.  But I’m afraid when I __do__ know I will wish I hadn’t known—I will wait.  

I’ve been intending, all along, to tell you where I live, how I live, who I know, what I do, etc., etc., etc., but I haven’t had the time.  That is to say, when I start to write I want to tell you, all the time how I love you, and write so much of that (nonsense? –please don’t say it,) that my letter is too long before I get to that point.  I’m going to tell—i.e.—I’m going to start in now!  I live at the Palace Hotel, room 1002, the same room I had before.  The Palace is my home, and the home of 849 other people too, to be exact, for they say—there’s old “they say” again—they say there are 850 guests, and I’m 1, leaving 849 others.  I get up at 7, have my breakfast at 7:45, go riding at 8:15, and to the office at 9; take my lunch at 12:30, back to the office till 5, loaf till 6, then dinner.  Sometimes after dinner go over to the Grand Hotel, sometimes to the theater.  I seldom go calling.  I have very few friends,--remember that,--and don’t try to make acquaintances.  I love a few friends, but my notions are peculiar on that head.  Didn’t I try to tell you my ideas on Society etc?  I believe I did, but unless you stop our correspondence soon, I’ll write you volumes on this and other subjects.  Society is my bête noir.  Now don’t you think because I used that word that I understand French, don’t reply in French, for I don’t understand another syllable, and am not even respectably familiar with my own language.  I won’t give you a dissertation today.  I only wrote you “these few lines” because I had an idle hour, and now it is one o’clock and I must go to work.  I’ll keep this till Sunday and enclose with my religious duty, my Sunday letter to my darling Emily.  Don’t forget in the meantime, however, that I shall love you between now and then, just the same, as I hope you’ll let me __forever__.  


Saturday, Dec. 1 – It’s raining this morning.  It doesn’t “come down like walking sticks”, but rains—and when I say that the whole thing is expressed.  You never saw such rains as we have, you don’t have the same in the eastern states; ours, like everything else in the country, is Californian.  There is a happy mean, a cosmopolitan state of affairs, in society, disposition, climate,--a mixture of all the good and bad.  Our weather would be considered delightful by anybody coming here for a short business visit (a man interrupted me just then on business, and I wrote it) but after months or years of sojourn it gets monotonous.  We need a change and that’s why we all go east occasionally.  When I was a boy there used to be a song “Spring would be gloomy weather if we had nothing else but spring”, or something of that sort.  But after we go away awhile we are glad to get back.  There is a something, an attractive something about California that no one resists.  I speculate often upon it, and wonder why it is that with our winds, rainy winters, earthquakes, droughts, floods etc., that we are all so fond of the country.  Generally, however, when that same speculation is going on in my brain I lose sight of some days as yesterday and the day before, and days before that, when all nature was glad and all were constant.  We must take it as it comes, I reckon, dear Emily, the bad with the good.  There could be no good if there was no evil, there would be no use of Heaven if all was perfection on Earth.  The good is in the association (?), I am sure, but we do not always think so, for I expect demonstrate we do not always appreciate or acknowledge the good, but are ever ready and willing to condemn the evil.  Since I have been writing the clouds have gone away and the sun is shining brightly.  The same thing will probably happen a dozen times today.  

This letter promises to be a longer one.   It’s been nearly six pages already, and a longer one to come tomorrow!  I better not do this any more or you will now know that I have thought of those----excessively.  I smile as I write this.  It seems as ------that you should doubt that I think of you, when I Know I think of nothing else.  I didn’t say nobody else, but nothing—and that was exactly the word to use.  “Nobody” is entirely out of the question.  

I’m going to quit now.  I suspect I had better be brief, for this is a very long letter.  I mustn’t bore you, my darling girl; I’m afraid I’ve done it already.  Today I should be reading the acknowledgement of your letter to me, but tomorrow you’ll answer won’t you little girl?  I shall wait till tomorrow.  Today—every day--suits me to write, if I could with propriety.  O, how I hate propriety.  I hate everything but a darling girl who is Emily.  No, I don’t—I don’t mean literally that I hate.  I only mean that I love.  I love you, only you Emily.  Till tomorrow—I shall love you just the same.  


Sunday morning, Dec. 2.  This is the loveliest morning, my dear Emily, and it is fitting that I dedicate it and myself to you.  The atmosphere is just a little crisp, but sunny and clear.  The coast range of mountains (look at your ---to eye view)  seems only a mile or two away, and not a breath of wind is stirring.  I’m going over the Bay to Oakland, on Prince, at 12:15, and have a nice ride and come back at 3:15.  There is no darling girl over there, but it will be quiet and give me the opportunity of thinking.  Can you guess who I’ll think about?  To this question I know you’ll say no, but will mean yes.  For fear you can’t guess I’ll tell. Emily.  There!  I shall think of my darling Emily, the darlingest girl (to me) in all the world, the one I love better than everything else, the only love I have.  Don’t say I’m a Bohemian—is it heathenish to love one, only?  Then I’m a heathen.  

I have not yet received Mrs. Lofland’s reply to my letter, and am a little scared.  I’m afraid she has refuted her consent, and will soon break up our correspondence.  Charley made no reply to the note I sent him, Mrs. Fox did not acknowledge the present I sent her, (although I am advised by the express agent that she received it) and I’ve had only a few lines from the Doctor.  It’s time to be scared.  I ought to have two letters from you before next Sunday, and if I don’t get them I shall be scared to death.  

This is the last week I’ll have Prince to ride.  Mr. Valentine, his owner, will return next Saturday and then I’ll have to give him up.  My whole time will then be occupied with work, but I rather like work, if it is regular.  It will not be so hard, tho, dear Emma, that I can’t spare the time to write to you.  And then the lonesome evenings—I wish it was “proper” that I might write you about eight pages every night.  Do you think I’d get tired?  No.  I’d never tire of talking to you, but I’m afraid you would tire of reading the foolishness.  If I make errors in grammar, orthography, omit or insert, you must overlook it, my darling, for I rattle away, just as I think, often without thinking, and never with the care that I should exercise.  All these things I do intentionally that you may become acquainted with me, may know me.  

I would write you about 8 pages more, but this is enough for one reading.  About next Wednesday I shall write you a short note –(it will be short, honestly), and then next Sunday my regular letter, tho length of which will be governed by the one I receive from you in the meantime.  

I shall close this with an avowal, which maybe I have forgotten heretofore, namely: I love you with all my heart, my darling Emily.  This Holy day I avow it.  

Your Jos
