---
layout: post
title: December 03, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
San Francisco, Monday  

My darling Emily,  

After mailing the letter to you yesterday, I took the ferry—Creek route—with Prince, and went to Oakland, Genl Dodge and wife being along in the carriage.  The day was fine, and Oakland was lovely.  The weather across the Bay is always warmer than in San Francisco.  We rode directly to Genl Dodge’s house where we three took lunch in a charming place they have.  The general is a very wealthy man and his wife has admirable taste, and the two combined have made them a perfect paradise to live in.  They own an entire block of ground and the house stands in the centre, with a porch to each street.  The lawn looks like velvet with graveled walks all through and around, fringed with flowers, with here and there a tree, every one different.  Their stable stands on a half block across one of the streets, and is a handsome and ornamental building.  But the dwelling house inside is the paradise.  On the ground floor there are two very large parlors, sitting room, billiard room, dining room, butler’s pantry, kitchen laundry, etc. Each of the parlors have large bay windows, with statuary or vases of flowers and the alcove to the dining room, separated by large sliding glass doors, has an immense bay window large enough for a dozen persons to sit and smoke or drink wine or whatever they like.  A massive and wide staircase leads to the floor above where their friends and guests sleep—magnificent apartments.  All the carpets are velvet or other rich and expensive kind, made in Europe especially for the floors they cover, and everything else is correspondingly handsome, appropriate, expensive and attractive.  They have been married nine years, have no children, and eke out their existence by themselves, in their castle.  Mrs. Dodge took pains to show me every nook and corner.  

Last evening for the first time since my return I met Harry Norton and I told him I had met you, your mother, father and brother, and that I had messages (did I fib?) for his wife.  He said Mrs. Norton was not very well, but would be all right in a day or two when he would come for me to go and spend the evening at his house, hear her sing and tell her personally of her friends.   Harry is very much in love with his wife and does not think strange that others should admire her.  I may not go at all, but if I do I will faithfully report the visit, which may interest you and Mrs. Lofland.  

This is another lovely, sunny day.  It’s my lunch time but I thought I would be able to do a few lines before going out, that you may know I think of you today.  I may scratch down a line or two tomorrow and Wednesday will send the “few lines” as promised yesterday.  

I am getting very anxious, my darling, to hear from you.  It is not time yet, but by Wednesday or Thursday I should get a dear letter from her I love so well, my darling Emily.  I will not be disappointed?  ? ?  Say I shall not.
