---
layout: post
title: November 21, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
Wednesday morning, Nov. 21 -I'm afraid my darling doesn't love me.  The fourteen days have gone by and no answer to my letter.  If she loved me, she would have answered so that now I would be reading her letter.  She should have received mine on Monday, 12th, and if she had answered that day, or the next, or still the following the letter would have been here.  Can she have found one to like better?  No, no, no, I won't believe it yet.   But then she would have answered something if my letter reached her in time.  Therefore I'll find fault with the mails.  I'm always opposed to the government, and now I have an additional ground for being a rebel.  It's an awfully long time until tomorrow morning, and there is only one through mail a day.  Suppose I don't get my answer then?  Suppose I do, and it says "we must not."  If it should be so what a blank!  She said shed have to write anyway - and __*she will*__ - I know her too well.  I was not mistaken in the honesty of that face.  It is the index to a good heart, and I'll be content  ---- till tomorrow.  The answer will come then.  And then!  And then?  If it is as I hope, she shall hear from me once a week at first, and oftener when she says so.  But what would I write about?  And yet I believe I could occupy hours, days by writing.  I would tell over and over, how I love her, how I want her to be my own, to cheer and purify a lonely life.  I would tell her what I think, what I do, and how I wonder the self same minutes what she is doing.  I would speculate upon the probabilities of her learning to love me, of the possibilities of my being able to make her always happy.  I should say how I would try, and that if excess of love was the test she should already be contented.   I should tell her how I would study to please her, how I would smooth the rough parts of me and try to be nearer to her.  I would tell her how I would not lead her over thorny paths, but with my own hands pluck the brambles from her way.  I should tell her how bad I have been and how good I will be, and ask her to believe me, to believe in me, to understand and trust me, as I do her.  O, there are so many things to say I could never find the time to write them.  But Id write so much I'd be afraid she'd tire of me.  And what a myriad of things she could tell me, all interesting.   She could tell me of her "downsittings and her uprisings" , of her thoughts that I might "understand them afar off",  of her music, new pieces, old pieces, visits, young lady callers, young gentleman callers, her flower pots and everything.  All would entertain me vastly.
