---
layout: post
title: November 2, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---

My dear Miss Lofland:
The rainy weather has begun and brings lonely evenings.  With your permission I would like to occupy as many of them as possible in correspondence with you.  That I may do no wrong I have asked Mrs. Lofland in a note whether or not it will meet with the approval of your family in case of a favorable response from you.
Not familiar with etiquette in such matters I suppose this must necessarily be a formal affair, and I scarcely know what to say.  On the train coming over I thought of thousands of things I wanted to write about—of the trip, the rains the first day or so, then the snow, then the winds, then the sunny bright skies, all appearing as if by magic;-- of the sombre fields in Missouri, Kansas and Iowa; -- how we ascended the mountains, rode over deserts, through tunnels, passed the Devils Gate and into Zion; the Sierra Nevadas with tall pines and firs gracefully bending over us, and then into the Happy Valley, the land of Oranges, Almonds and figs,-- California, my home.  I thought of all these things and wrote many mental letters, but I realize now that Dr. Fox’s Guide book told you all that before.  I thought of other things, too, to write about, but it all seems a dream, for I have wakened to the reality that since I bid “you all” good bye I have heard not a word from any of you.  Was it a dream?  Have I not been away?  Surely I am writing to a real person whom I am beginning to build an ideal upon.  Will I receive an answer?  If so I promise to write again and as often as you will permit, and I will, in addition, say “thank you, Miss”.
If there is no objection by yourself or anybody else please write me to that effect.  I had thought of suggesting that you show this to your mother, but I remember what the young lady told you, --as stated the evening I left—namely, “that there was nothing in her letter that would be of interest to her mother.”   As I have no mother and no one else who could or would possibly take an interest in any letters I receive I will just say that if a correspondence with me is agreeable you may have no scruple about what you say, nor the length, and if you like to receive long ones intimate it, for I write very fast and have nothing else to do, nobody else to think of. --- I believe I will close this one, tho, and will be very impatient for fourteen days, when I shall hope for a reply.

Very Respectfully Yours,
Jos. S. Roberson
