---
layout: post
title: December 27, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My dear Emily--  

Just now, on the street, I met a friend whom I have not seen since my return.  His greeting was warm as it always is.  He is an old gentleman, a doctor, and prescribes for me, always, when I need any physic.  He thinks a great deal of me, and always considers himself at liberty to advise me.  He is a German and speaks broken English, but his ideas are sound.  He has a happy home and believes all men should have.  He thinks I should have.  Just now when I met him, he said he knew I was back but was mad because I didn’t bring a wife with me.  He said he would allow me to go east once more on the condition, however, that I should not return alone!  We both laughed and separated.  He didn’t know how much I’d been thinking of the same thing, and I didn’t tell him.  The old gentleman’s pleasantry touched a tender chord.  

This little incident decided me to write to you today.  I had been wondering whether sufficient time had elapsed.  I think about it all the time.  And now I shall just read your letter, received Monday, just once more and answer it.  

In the first place, dear Emily, let me compliment you on the happy way you have of expressing yourself.  I imagine I see you as you write, everything is so natural.  That’s the charm in letter writing.  Some people affect a strained manner and no matter what they say we do not enjoy it.  You write so cleverly that I know there’s no affectation about you.  The first thing I see to answer is your intention to send me a picture to reach me on Christmas day, but didn’t because you thought them not good.  Why didn’t you send it anyhow, and then send the good one too?  Of all the things in the world—inanimate things—that could have reached me, your likeness would have been most acceptable.  It seems to me I’d give an arm, freely, just to look at your picture.  Please send it soon. – Then you say you couldn’t find the needed articles to finish what you were making for me.  I thank you just the same, dear little woman, for thinking of me.  You are the only person who did think of me,--except Mrs. Valentine, who every year makes me something or other for my bureau.  Nobody else thought of me this year, except you, dear Emily, and I’m glad of it, for I want to be forgotten by all the rest of the world.  If you’ll only think kindly of me I’m content.  

The account of your “debut” and “farewell” amused me.  You tell the experience charmingly.
You speak of the long time it takes for answers to our letters, and ask me if I remember talking about the same thing.  Indeed I do.  I remember everything we ever talked of.  The suspense I endure in waiting for your answer is terrible.  I wish so much space didn’t separate us.  I wish you were only about one hour and ten minutes from the office and that I could see you every evening.  Then my happiness would be complete.  There are many, many other things in your letter, but they are too dear to refer to even, and don’t need answering.  Your letters get better and better all the time, while I’m afraid mine retrograde.  You improve on acquaintance and I don’t, I’m afraid.  I like you better and better, all the time, but am fearful I grow smaller in your eyes.  

You promise me another letter “this week”.  Won’t I get it tonight?  I will go to the post office about ten o’clock and see.  I hope I will.  If it comes it will not be an answer to any of mine, for there was a whole lonesome week I didn’t write.  I’ve been making up for it since, tho, and about next Monday night, the 31st of January, I should receive my answer to the long one that reached you the day before Christmas, and since that I’m quite sure I’ve averaged more than two a week.  I expect in Monday’s letter that you will tell me how often and how long I may write.  I will write you again on Sunday, and will try and not make it too long.  

This is our busiest season.  The year is dying and we must all render our employer’s statements of the business of the year, and so forth.  A new year is about to begin and we must tell them what we expect to do.  Statements and statistics, reports and accounts—all that sort of thing—have to be made up this week.  But with all that I shall find time to talk to my sweetheart, and to think of her, which I do constantly.  If I had to work hard eighteen hours there would be six left to dream of her.  She is in my mind all the time, though, at work or asleep.  I name the  corners of all rooms with one name, and in fact might be termed a one-idea man.  I love her, and I don’t care.  I’m afraid she don’t, won’t, or can’t return it and I do care.  I want to see her.  I want to see her photograph.  I want to tell her how much I think of her, and want to know if she will let me.  All these things you can answer, dear Emily, for it’s you I love, it’s you I think of, all the time and forever.  God bless you.  

Faithfully, J.S.R.
