---
layout: post
title: November 27, 1877
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
San Francisco, Tuesday, Nov. 27, 1877 Noon  

My darling,  

I’ve just been out getting something for you, but what’s the use?  It seems that I can never give you anything.  What an accumulation I will have after a while!  I’m going to tell you what it is this time, and one of these days, maybe, you will accept it, and the other things.  A watch.  The prettiest one I ever saw.  Red gold, double case, perfectly smooth all around.  Just a nice size for a lady.  Not one of those tiny toy watches that ladies wear, generally, nor is it a gentlemans size, but a happy medium.  It is pretty, and my taste is good in that line, if I am an old bachelor.  You saw the little long chain, of red gold, too, -- to match it.  Why can’t I send the watch and chain along with the pearl earrings Christmas?  Would there be any harm in it?  I’m sure I don’t know, but \*\*\*\* sure that I don’t mean any.  They say if \*\*\*\*\*\* if I was engaged to you I might give you presents.  Let’s be engaged.  Why not?  I love you, my darling, and my thoughts are all yours.  Let’s be engaged, and I’ll give you the liberty to withdraw your assent whenever you like, for, you know, you are free whenever you “like somebody else better”.   “When you are engaged” – they say, “presents are in order”.  Am I stupid, or is it that I don’t understand “conventionalities”, “etiquette” or things of that sort?  But, upon my life; I can’t see why two people can’t love each other and leave the obligations until they are ready to get married.  Am I a Bohemian?  Mrs. Fox said I was, but I \*\*\*\*.  The case briefly stated, is this:  I love you, and intend to ask you to be my wife if I think I can make you happy.  I am positive about the first but have doubts about the last.  Pending the proposition why should I encumber you with obligations, providing you __should__ love me and consent?  As to the presents why not take them now?  The things I propose to give you are of no earthly use to me, and I will not give them to anybody else.  They would be ornaments to my darling, my love.  The exchange would make you no richer, me no poorer.  They might, in reality, be considered no more than the geranium you sent me.  There is no harm.  I am over two thousand miles away from you, and will never see you again unless I go after you, to be my wife.  I offer these things freely, voluntarily.  Whenever you “like somebody else better”, or cease to like me, a word will stop all exchange of thoughts between us and, of course, you will not suffer.  Darling, I do love you better than my life.  Instead of harming you I would protect you in peril of life.  The little trifles I offer are pledges of my love.  It’s my way of showing it.  Won’t you take them?  Talk to your mother, talk to your father.  Tell them, as only you know how, that I love you and propose to give you a few little things; that it will please __me__ to have you accept them; that I have earnestly, respectfully asked you to have them; that your consent would make __me__ happy and you none the less so.  Put it as you know how.  Say that I don’t want, \*\*\*\*\* to give you even a flower; that I mean what I say, for them to know, for the world to know.  Try and arrange it so that you can answer me: “send me what you like, and when you like;  I will receive in the spirit given, unhesitatingly, believing what you say, willing to test our loves by time.”  Then will you be, more than ever, my darling, then will I, more than ever, if possible, love you, and continue to love you to the end.  

My darling Emily, my writing in this way may not be right.  If it isn’t please forgive me.  But I don’t mean any harm, indeed I don’t.  If I am wrong tell me so.  I’m willing to be advised, I want you to talk to me as you think.  That’s just what I am doing, saying what I think.  I know very little about “proprieties”, I only know that I love you with a pure love, and what I say and what I want to do is __my__ way – a crude way, maybe, but an honest way.  Every word I have ever written you I mean and do not wish to retract.  Possibly the “proprieties” of life would forbid such free expressions of thought, but if that is so there’s where I am stupid.  Maybe, however, you will applaud me for trying to be honest.  Do it if you can, truly, my darling.  But if you can’t applaud please don’t censure until you have taught me what is right.  In my ignorance I may say and do things which ought not to be said and done, but remember I’m an uncouth chap, loving you with all my heart, unused to graceful ways of saying it, but blurting it out bluntly.  With all my roughness I wouldn’t hurt you, my darling, if I know it, and you must teach me softness – tell me when I am wrong, and bear with faults which may be glaring to your eyes.  

I’ve got lots of things to say, and intended to say them today, in this letter, but already it seems too long to send.  And would you believe that this is shorter than either of the others?  I think it is.  Look at the lines.  Which had you rather I would write on—the narrow or wide lined paper?  

When you are alone, or in company, at church or theater, awake or asleep, don't forget, darling Emily, that you have __all__ my heart, and all the love, and the best love of  

Your Jo