---
layout: post
title: January 3, 1878
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My darling Emily,  

I’m going to answer your letter, received night before last, but before I begin I’m going to tell you how much I think of you—a part of it—and I’ve stumbled on some lines, in verse, written over two hundred years ago, which tells it better than I can.  

 > If mine eyes do e’er declare  
 > They’ve seen a second thing that’s fair  
 > Or ears that they have music found,  
 > Besides thy voice, in any sound,  
 > If my abused touch allow  
 > Ought to be smooth or soft but then,  
 > If all my senses objects be  
 > Not contracted into thee,  
 > And so through thee more powerful pass,  
 > As beam do through a burning-glass,  
 > If all things that in nature are  
 > Either soft, or sweet, or fair,  
 > Be not in thee so epitomiz’d  
 > That naught material’s not compris’d  
 > May I as worthless seem to thee,  
 > As all but thou appear to me.  

That sounds a little extravagant, but it seems to me it only half tells the story.  Do you believe it yet?  You may.  

I am delighted that I so pleasantly surprised you on Christmas morning.  In sending the telegram I only acted out the rule “do unto others as you would have them do to you”.  If I could have seen you or heard from you on that morning I’d been the most unsurly chap on the coast.  The next thing was to greet you by telegraph.  I’m so glad, dear Emily, that you admired the little things I sent you.  You seem to think the watch is the prettiest, while I like the pearls better.  Pearls are always pretty and carry pure thoughts with them.  The ones you’ve got are as pretty as anybody’s.  You’ll like them the best after a while.  Always keep them near you, Emily, for they are “lucky”.  Whenever you wear them you’ll think of me, I know, and when you do you can’t help knowing that my love is pure as they are.  Your description of the visit and dinner at Mrs. Fox’s, and the flattering way you tell me of my presence everywhere, pleased me wonderfully.  Am I not awfully selfish to want you to be constantly thinking of me and I’m a perfect tyrant in the matter of love.  I wish I had all yours, and if I had I’d give not a speck to anybody else.  I give you all, all mine, without the asking, and yet I ask, I beg for a little bit of yours and you withhold it.  Now, Emily, is that right?  Just a little bit?  I’m very glad you wore the things to Mrs. Fox’s that day.  I want them all to know I like you.  You ask me why I sent Lockey the prettiest ring.  Was it?  Maybe so.  Well, some one of the children had to have the prettiest.  Why not Lockey?  Wasn’t – isn’t she your favorite?  Maybe each ring, should have been alike.  I don’t know –I don’t know nuthin.  If I haven’t answered your question I don’t believe I can.  So you like to keep something reminding you of me—where nobody but you sees it—something which nobody knows anything about.  Wait!  I’ll send you something one of these days.  Now comes a hard part to answer.  You were wounded at my letter.  I’m awfully sorry, dear Emily, and won’t do so any more.  But what else could I write? I beg pardon for picking your sentences to pieces.  I won’t do that any more sure.  But I was afraid you didn’t or wouldn’t like me.  (I’m not convalescent yet, on that.)  But I won’t do so any more, and you’ll forgive me this time, won’t you?  Upon my word you misunderstood my meaning when I answered about what Dr. Fox knew.  I only meant to tell you truthfully.  That’s all.  The words had no double meaning.  I answered the questions, without any kind of malice.  Believe that. – Excuse me for contradicting—but my darling you do write good letters.  They charm me and I’m not flattering, but about your correspondence—write often (to me) and you’ll know it after awhile, yourself.  I thank you for your letters and heartily appreciate them.  Your chirography is not “fearful”.  It is good.  Don’t you talk that way any more, or I’ll be mad.  Don’t abuse my correspondent, Miss Emily.  So the hero in “Hannah” reminds you somewhat of me?  If I had time I’d read the novel, but I’d rather devote my spare time thinking about and writing to my heroine, my darling Emily.  It’s a good idea to put chamois pockets on your drapes.  The case I sent is the one I wore it in, and I got it fearfully soiled, too, for I noticed that.  I’ll tell you about winding the watch farther along.  I’ll just say here that it isn’t silly (as you expect it,) but charming to talk to you that way.  That’s the way I want to hear you talk.  It gives me hope.  I’m not sorry you wrote that.  I’m glad, and I didn’t laugh, but just kissed the words.  

Now, my own darling, I am just going to notice one more thing and then go to dinner, for the clock is striking 6.  You say “one man may hope”.  Dear, darling Emily, I thank you so much for that and take it all to myself.  You did mean me, and I know it, and I’ve kissed that place more than once.  Forever dear darling I thank you for it, and now good night.  

Friday morning.  I got up early, and at 7:30 was on Prince, sailing through the city.  I went to the park and had a delightful ride, returning by 9:20.  This is one of the coldest mornings I have ever seen in San Francisco.  The streets were covered with white frost, and a little puddle near the Park had a thin skim of ice over it.  It was clear and frosty and Prince felt so good he hardly knew how to act.  I went slowly out to the race track, taking an hour and a half, then stopped and warmed my feet, which felt like ice, and then returned in 20 minutes.  Prince fairly flew over the road, up and downhill, and through the streets.  Everybody stopped to look as I passed.  He is a charming saddle horse. – To show you the kind of cold weather we have here, sometimes, I enclose a slip cut out from this morning’s paper.  Just now in St. Louis, I reckon if you could have such weather you would be content.  I imagine it is much colder there. – I have written this paragraph right in my busiest time.  Later today I will resume the answering of your letter.  


4:30 p.m.  I’m not through my “’daily labor” yet, but I will resume the answering of your letter.  Let me see where I left off.  O yes—I see, above.  You tell me, next, that you do want me to tell you how much I like you.  I’m doing that all the time, and of course can’t say anything in answer.  Then you say “I’m not sure of myself.  I’m sure it would make me feel dreadful if you liked anyone else.  You tell me to try to love you, but that wouldn’t be right….Did you have to try to love me?  Write and tell me.”  Honestly I don’t know what you mean by not being sure of yourself.  Further along something else will be answered which is a mystery to me.  I thank you for saying you would feel badly to.  Don’t have any doubt on that point.  I will like nobody but my darling Emily.  I mean that positively. Did I have to try to love you?  No, you darling girl, -- everybody must love you.  How could I see you, know you three weeks – be in your presence nearly every day for that length of time without loving you?  No, it required no effort, it “just come”.  I don’t know how, but it was irresistible – I couldn’t help it – I don’t want to help it.  Loving you makes me a better man.  I hope for something to live for, now.  Heretofore there’s been very little object in life for me.  Why should there have been?  Now a faint glimmer of hope is in my heart.  It is the grand motive.  Some men love riches, some honor, some power.  None of these move me to action.  I want to love a human being, I want her to love me.  Then would I try to get riches, honor, power, for her, not for me. I should strive to get them that she might have additional reason for loving me, for being proud of her love. – But now I must attend to business, and will begin again, later.  God bless my darling now and forever.  For a while, dear Emily, adieu.  


5:12 – I wasn’t gone long, was I?  If I hadn’t been writing to you, I’d been a great deal longer attending to that business, but it makes a mighty sight of difference, I tell you.  The greatest pleasure I have is receiving your letters. The next writing to you.  I’m in love, and no mistake. – the next thing in your letter, to write about is what you say of the little cottage, and to tell you the honest truth, I don’t understand that part at all.  You close what you say about it thus:  “But you know what I mean when I tell you not to get it yet, don’t you?”  Indeed I don’t.  Please tell me.  Please say exactly what you mean, for I don’t understand you at all.  It has bothered my brain immensely and I can’t work it out.  Please tell me, my own darling.  I may be stupid – I am I reckon – but you don’t explain your thoughts.  You only tell me not to buy it.  Please me this time and tell me all about it, for I shall be unhappy until I know your reasons.  In one place you say “You know what you want to do better than I do, and perhaps some one that I know nothing of, might move in instantly.”  No, no, no – that wouldn’t be.  If I had it and you didn’t come to occupy it I should live there alone.  No other woman should be there.  I shall never ask anybody but you, my darling, to be my wife.  If you never like me well enough to allow me to ask you then I shall always be a bachelor – But I won’t say anything more about the cottage now, hoping the answer to this will give me your ideas, which now, I can only guess at, and my guesses are always wrong.  Don’t forget to write about it, please.  

The balance of your letter doesn’t require answering.  There are some little things in it so dear that I only want to think and dream of them, never to give utterance to.  You are my own darling Emily, and I love you awfully well.  

I came near forgetting.  There is one thing more.  Wind your watch at noon, every day, -- when the sun is at the meridian.  Then I’ll be thinking of you.  But how silly that sounds, when I am thinking of you all the time, morning, noon and night.  Every minute during the day, and night, I am either thinking or dreaming of my darling Emily.  The schemes that run through my brain, when I’m alone, are amusing, sometimes.  I’m a great fellow to build “castles” and I’m constantly doing it, Emily always the heroine.  I make you a queen sometimes, sometimes an angel, -- most always something way beyond my reach.  I put you on pedestals far above my touch and I sit and admire and love and worship the creation of my brain.  But I am glad, Emily, that you are no queen, no angel.  I am glad you are a woman.  I am glad you are my darling, my Emily.  Did you ever see the play, where the artist makes an image and loves it?  You’ve read the Marble Heart?  -- When I make you into all kinds of fantastical shapes and love them I smile when I realize that you are better than all such. – I feel thankful that you are a loving woman; -- I hope that you may love me.  

But old Time is moving and it’s getting round to 6 o’clock again, and this letter is getting longer and longer – every minute I stay.  I want to finish and send it along in the morning.  I’ll write you another – little one – Sunday.  Today is only Friday and you’ll get it Friday.  It’s my unlucky day.  Are you superstitious?  I am.  In my next letter – if I can find it – I will copy and send you a pretty piece of poetry, a translation from the German.  It’s about three students who drink the health of their sweethearts back at home.  Two of them have drank – each time all striking their glasses together.  The third describes his loved one and they strike glasses the last time, when his breaks to pieces.  Then it goes on to say that very hour his sweetheart is dead.  I’ll send it to you.  It’s pretty, and I am fond of those superstitious things.  

Emily, I love you,  
God bless you, my darling.  
Ever,  
Faithfully, Your J.S.R.
