---
layout: post
title: January 6, 1878
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
Palace Hotel, Sunday, Midnight  

Miss Emily Lofland,  

Before mailing the letter I had written you today I thought I would look in the box, and there were two from you, one beginning “Mr. Roberson”, and signed “very respectfully, Miss Emily Lofland”, underscored as I have written it.  The other had no beginning and was signed “Respectfully, Emily Lofland.”  Hence my beginning above.  

I am very sorry you think I am such a mean fellow.  I have been trying to please you, and not receiving answers to my long letters wrote a few short ones. --  If it had been a task  I should not have written at all.—You say you are sorry you wrote me the letter the Wednesday before.—I am truly pained that you say so.  

When I got your letters tonight I did not mail the one I had written, but went to the office and wrote you several pages more, but studying it all over I thought possibly you might not wish to hear, -- so I tore them all up.  

I cannot sleep.  I must write you something.  The love I have for you is honest love.  I still entertain the same for you.  I loved to write you long letters and to call you my darling. I did not know until the receipt of your Wednesday letter (received the past week) that it was agreeable.  Since then I have written you two or three times and at length.  

I am sorry you have such a low opinion of me.  I am afraid you intend a good bye.  If you do of course I can only submit.  But I will say this:  No other man will ever love you as I do; no other man will ever be kinder to you than I could have been.  I shall never love any woman but Emily Lofland.  

It was (and would be always) a pleasure to write you often and long letters.  
My darling Emily, God bless you forever,  

I am still  
Faithfully, Sorrowfully  
Ever yours,  

J.S.R
