---
layout: post
title: January 7, 1878
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
Monday morning - 2 o'clock  

My darling Emily -  

You don’t know what you are doing, when you write one as the ones now lying before me, read and reread and answered forty different ways tonight.  The last one I will not tear up but mail it so that you will still receive a Sunday letter from me.  

I love you, my darling, and want to be kind.  I don’t understand you. I only know that I love you.  Please don’t write one that way any more, but send me as kind and loving letters as your heart will allow.  

I don’t know what I’m doing but send this, and the last written sheet anyway, hoping you will still let me call you my darling, and believe I am always,  

Faithfully  
Yours  
J.S.R.  


San Francisco, Monday, Jany 7, 1878  

My darling Emily,  

I don’t know whether you will ever even open this letter, or if you do whether you will ever read it, for in your last you say you’ve a mind to send all mine back and this one may be returned unopened, -- but I can’t help writing you still.   I was hardly responsible for my actions last night.  I had, during the day, written you a long letter; then took a ride, and went to Mr. McDonald’s to dinner.  I was very happy all day, and in the evening, at Mr. McDonald’s (who is an old friend of mine) telling his wife of my love for a charming young lady “back home” (mentioning no names, of course).  Mrs. McDonald is just about your age and size, has some charming manners and plays and sings well, but of course, -- not like you.  She wondered that I *********, should be in love; and hoped that my sweetheart loved me as well –(to which I had to express fear) ---and told me how happy she and her husband were (he is my senior seven years), and told me all about their home, their habits and their happiness generally.  They urged me to stay late – we had a 4 o’clock dinner, but I insisted on going early, just about the time I knew the mail would be distributed, but I didn’t tell them the reason.  After all the happy day, happy writing to you – happy riding alone and thinking about you, happy visiting and talking of you, -- with the letter in my pocket to post, I fairly ran (couldn’t wait for a car) to the post office, and then -- and then!!  I wanted the earth to swallow me, -- I didn’t want to live any longer.  I was wild, -- I didn’t know what to do.  I hardly know what I did do, but I wrote you something at 2 o’clock this morning. Then I went to bed, but not to sleep until after 4 o’clock.  In my sleep I was relieved.  You were with me all the time I slept, -- I dreamed of you constantly.  You were the same gentle girl, my own, my darling Emily, and I told you so a million times, and in return I thought you told me you did love me.  It was the pleasantest, happiest three hours sleep I ever had, but I waked at 7, and there, on the table, were your letters.  There were the fragments of my scribbling, all to remind me that there was “a reality”, a something tangible making me know I had been dreaming.  All day at the office I have been petulant and disagreeable, out of sorts, and my work is unfinished.  

My darling Emily, I wish I could understand you.  That’s what I’ve been trying to do.  I wrote you long letters and received short ones in answers.  I thought probably it was their length.  I wrote you often and got few in return.  I have written you just 22 letters since the 5th of Nov., containing altogether 65 pages of close matter.  (count them and see if I overstate it.)  I have received from you 8, just 8.  Wasn’t reason on my side when I thought I wrote too often and too long?  I told you of my love for you in every one of them.  Have you said that you loved me?  Wasn’t it reasonable to believe I was boring you with protestations, when in return you could not confess to anything like the same?  I asked you how often I might write.  Did you tell me?  I can’t find it in any that I have received.  Did I not answer every one of yours immediately?  Did I not write you between times?  The letter that complains of the brevity of my Sunday letter, signing “Very Respectfully, Miss Emily Lofland,” acknowledges the receipt of one containing 7 pages of closely written matter, dated 19th, 20th Dec.,(?), but no further mention is made of it.  You say you have been thinking for some time that I want to stop the correspondences.  Was that unjust, dear Emily?  Point out a line or a word that indicates it. -- You say you will punish me.  You have done it, for I am very unhappy today, and shall be until I receive a good, kind letter.—Now let me tell you something.  When I went to St. Louis I was lonesome.  I saw you.  I loved you.  Who could have helped it?  I thought I saw in you what I had longed for all my life and never found.  I talked to you, watched you, noticed your every action.  I was not mistaken.  I wondered if you could love me.  I thought if you could and would, I would try and make you happy.  I have always been a wild spendthrift, having no object in life, caring nothing for myself or anybody or anything.  My idea was to come home, study myself well, get into correspondence with you, make you know me, try to know you.  I thought I’d try to save instead of spend as I had always done, -- get me a modest home, and if I thought you would be content with me, to ask you to come and share it, and my adversity or prosperity, as the case might be.  I had no fears of providing well for you, but I did have doubts about giving you some things that most all young, handsome, bright ladies desire.  I thought to bring you out on all these points, to tell you my failings, hoping that someday you might say “I will go with you, and together we will fight the battle of life, trusting you as you do me, each bearing a share of the burden.”—These were my ideas, my hopes, not my expectations for I was all the time in doubt.  Thus I have been free to express myself—more so than if we were engaged in a trivial meaningless correspondence.  I could have written you very different letters, but I wanted you to know me. –These are my reasons for all my actions, dear Emily.  I wanted to talk to you by mail as if I were present.  I wanted to feel that you took a personal interest in me.  I felt a great interest in everything that, in the least, concerned you. I don’t want any other sweetheart.  If you send me away, I shall look no further.  The love for you came to me – I did not seek it.  I loved you and you might trust me.  If Dr. Fox writes one page to his wife it is no reason I would write no more to mine.  The fact of my writing you one page on Sunday—when I had said I would write you every Sunday – was no evidence that I did not wish to write more.  I was honest in believing that I loved you.  Deceit is no part of my composition.  Sarcasm is no part of me.  I have said neither deceitful nor sarcastic things to you.  I have used no art, in any way.  My letters have told you daily just how I felt.  If I had desired to stop the correspondence I should plainly have said so.  

I did not want it to cease, and I want it to continue as long as agreeable to you.  I asked you in one of my letters to tell me if you wanted it to stop.  I think I said “tell me so plainly and do not show it by indifference or something of that sort”.  If I did not want to hear from you would I go a mile and half every night, through rain, through mud to look for letters?  No, I would not, -- and yet I do that nearly every night, hoping to get a line.  If I did not love you better than my own life would I say so in every letter I write?  No, there would be no use of such *** lines.  If I was such a bad fellow, would I try to deceive you, my own darling, the friend, the relative of my old, old friend Dr. Fox?  No, no, no, my darling Emily, banish all these ideas, if you have such.  Tell me how to act, -- how to write – length and all, and let me call you my own darling.  Let’s understand one another perfectly.  I will not prove unworthy your confidences, for I love you devotedly, my darling, -- indeed I do, or I wouldn’t say it.  Talk to me plainly dear Emily, and let us be friends.  That’s the way, the only way.  If anything I say is not right teach me what is.  I’m an apt scholar when the lesson is plainly set before me.  

It is now ten minutes to 8 and I will close, declaring my constant and firm love for you, hoping still. --  I am always, faithfully yours,  

J.S.R.
