---
layout: post
title: January 5, 1878
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
__The Three Lovers__  

 > Three students sat regaling around the festive board  
 > And, jovial-hearted, freely with wine their glasses stored.  
 > Then spake the first: “Fill comrades, your beakers brimming o’er;  
 > I have at home a true-love, to her this pledge I pour;  
 > Black eyes she has, black tresses, the trimness of a pine,  
 > And rosy lips which fondly have oft been pressed to mine.”  
 > Together smote the glasses with clear melodious clang,  
 > And like a choral answer the refluent echo rang.  
 > “Ha!” cried the first expectant, “a gracious omen this;  
 > My maid on me is musing, and on our parting kiss.”  
 >
 > “Good soothe!” So spake the second, “I have a true-love, too,  
 > With whom full oft the moments I’ve whiled in frolic through;  
 > Brown eyes she has, brown tresses, a footstep fawn-like, light,  
 > And voice more sweetly tuneful than bells on mountain height.”  
 > Together smote the glasses with clear melodious clang,  
 > And like a choral answer the refluent echo rang.  
 > In joy exclaimed the second, “For me the omen rings;  
 > The song I faught at parting, even now my darling sings,”  
 >
 > “And I recall a maiden,” the third spake soft and low,  
 > “Ah! Never can our faithful hearts their mutual love forego,  
 > Blue eyed with golden tresses, the sunlight’s tender grace,  
 > But vainly would I picture her mild angelic face.”  
 > Together smote the glasses – the third in pieces sprang!  
 > And loud, as if in anguish a quivering echo rang.  
 > The first two youths sat speechless, with wild distracted air;  
 > The third, in bitter weeping, outpoured his heart’s despair.  
 >
 > And through his native valley, that very hour there rolled,  
 > The tones like heavenly hailings, of bells in chorus tolled.  
 > But there was one that heard not those hallowed chimes resound,  
 > A face of angel beauty in tranquil slumber bound,  
 > Her gentle eyes of azure had lost their loving ray,  
 > And on her golden tresses, a pale, death-garland lay.  


My Darling Emily,  

What ever possessed me, last night, to think of the “Three Lovers?”  I don’t know, but I found it this morning and copied it.  Did I muse on the possibility of breaking my watch at noon?  Or your breaking yours?  I can’t now tell what I thought – I reckon I didn’t know then.  The lines are pretty, tho’, and were translated by a friend of mine, (a gentleman in this office) many years ago.  Of course I had no idea of death.  I suppose my mind ran into the groove that if anything happened to my watch at winding you would have learned to love some other fellow.  But nothing will happen – not to your watch at winding.  I shall never change except to think more and more of you constantly.  

I’m going to ride Prince this afternoon – I’m going across the Bay.  It’s a charming day, and I’ll look at the pretty places over there and wish one of them was mine, and a darling girl living there wishing and waiting my return.  I’ll have a good time for fanciful reflections.  

Tomorrow, Sunday, I’ll write you a little bit of a letter.  I couldn’t help writing this today.  
I think of you so much that I must write once in a while, at odd times.  – Don’t forget that I love you, my darling.  

Faithfully, J.S.R.
