---
layout: post
title: January 1, 1878
tags: [emily, lofland, joseph, roberson]
---
My dear Emily,  

These are the very first words I write this day, this month, this year.  A happy New Year and many more, to Emily Lofland.  May you be happy ever—always—my dear Emily.  If I had the power to make it so, you should never know an unhappy moment. A happy New Year to you and all of yours.  I pray a prosperous year may come to your father and his family.  

Mrs. Norton asked me, the other night, to get the Evening Bulletin of 19th Dec., containing a criticism of her appearance at the Mercantile Library Hall and send to you.  I forgot to mention the circumstance in my letter Sunday night, but yesterday I got the paper, and herein enclose the cutting.  I trust that this will be excuse enough for writing so soon, to say nothing about the Happy New Year, which we all have a right to wish our friends.  

Last night I confidently expected to receive a letter from you written on Christmas day, but it did not come.  I thought that, as you heard from me that day by mail, by express, and by telegraph, you would at least say a word—a Merry Christmas, anyway!  I had a letter from the Express Agent, Mr. Parker, saying the package was delivered to you personally, and he wished me a Merry Christmas, and also wished the same for you.  

Enclosed I hand you a little book of San Francisco views.  One of these days I will try and get you some handsome pictures of California scenery, if they can be had.  So far I have been unable to get exactly what I’d like.  I want you to see photographs of the country that produces one hundred millions of money in metal every year, besides the wheat etc., which is more than Missouri or Illinois.  It’s a great big country, you may be sure, and just now a lovely country to see.  

Allow me to close this by again wishing all good things for you the coming year.  

Believe me,  
Ever,  
Faithfully,  
Yours,  
J.S.R.  


Tuesday night - 9 p.m. Jany 1, 78  
The clock (cathedral is striking while I write  

My darling Emily,  

I never could rest easy if I went to bed without thanking you for the dear, good, long letter you wrote me Christmas night and the next day, received tonight.  “Beggar that I am; I am even poor in thanks, but I thank thee.” –I wish I knew words that I want to use.  Your letter just received is the dearest one you have written and will be a great comfort—company—until the next one comes.  I cannot tell you how much I love you; if I could you wouldn’t believe me, the expression would seem so extravagant.  Believe more than I tell you on this point and you will begin to know.  Like Hamlet “I know not seems.”  I am positive.  I know myself.  I’ve been afraid for a week that you wouldn’t allow me to love you any more.  Of nights I’ve been restless and sleepless.  Last night I dreamed of you, and I’m going to tell it to you.  I went to bed before twelve.  At midnight the bells rung, boys blew horns and withal there were hideous sounds everywhere, dinning the old year out and the new year in.  I tossed and tossed.  At last I slept and if you will pardon the use of the prettiest little descriptive quotation in all the English language, I will quote from Whittier’s Snowbound:  

 > But sleep stole on, as sleep will do  
 > When hearts are light and life is new;  
 > Faint and more faint the murmurs grew,  
 > Till in the summer-land of dreams  
 > They softened to the sound of streams,  
 > Low stir of leaves, and dip of oars,  
 > And lapsing waves on quiet shores.  

This is not exactly applicable, but it’s mighty pretty.  My heart was not light, and my life isn’t a new one, “by a large majority”.  But I went to sleep, and immediately my Emily appeared.  You had grown stout, but were exceedingly pretty.  I thought I hadn’t seen you for years.  I took both your hands and kissed you.  You said you had loved me all the time, and felt sorry you hadn’t acknowledged it.  I woke up, mad,--mad because it wasn’t true.  

But this is only to acknowledge the receipt of your dear letter.  Before Sunday I will answer, and write you a long letter.  This morning I sent you a book of views, and hid among the leaves a little Happy New Year letter. You’ll find it, won’t you?  Emily, please write me oftener, won’t you?  And remember that now, henceforth and forever, you are my darling, and have all my love, all the good that is in me—the bad I’ll try and expunge.  God bless, my darling, always.  

Faithfully, J.S.R.
